



===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 29 - Remedies and Special Proceedings--->Chapter 20 - Governmental Tort Liability--->Part 4. Funding And Insurance Utilities--->29-20-401.  Creation of reserve or special fund -- Pooling agreements with other governmental entities -- Election to self-insurer.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014 . See the version applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section29-20-401. Creation
 of reserve or special fund -- Pooling agreements with other 
governmental entities -- Election to self-insurer. [Applicable to 
injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014 . See the version 
applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) Any
 governmental entity may create and maintain a reserve or special fund 
for the purpose of making payment of claims against it payable pursuant 
to this chapter or for the purpose of purchasing liability insurance to 
protect it from any and all risks created by this chapter.(b) (1) Any
 two (2) or more governmental entities are hereby granted the power, any
 provision of law to the contrary notwithstanding, to enter into an 
agreement or agreements with one another for joint or cooperative action
 to pool their financial and administrative resources for the purpose of
 providing to the participating governmental entities risk management, 
insurance, reinsurance, which is defined to mean reinsurance by an 
entity created under this section, self-insurance, or any combination 
thereof for any and all of the areas of liability or insurability, or 
both, for such governmental entities, including, but not limited to, the
 liabilities created by this chapter (including general and professional
 liabilities), liabilities under the workers' compensation law, 
liabilities under the unemployment compensation law, and motor vehicle 
insurance. All such agreements shall be made pursuant to title 12, 
chapter 9. (2) The power to enter
 into agreements hereunder specifically includes the power to establish a
 separate legal or administrative entity or entities to effectuate such 
agreements or, if no separate legal or administrative entity or entities
 are established, to designate an administrator of the pooled financial 
and administrative resources. An entity so established, or an 
administrator so designated, shall be deemed to have been appointed by 
the governing body of the governmental entity for the purposes of Â§ 
29-20-309, and this appointment shall not be considered as a violation 
of the provision of Â§ 12-9-104(a) dealing with the powers, privileges or
 authority of officers of political subdivisions. (3) Each
 such agreement shall be approved by appropriate resolution or as 
otherwise permitted by the laws of the participating governmental 
entities before any such agreement shall be effective or binding. (4) In
 addition to those items included in any such agreement pursuant to Â§ 
12-9-104(c), the agreement may specify: the nature and scope of 
insurance coverage and coverages to be provided; the method and methods 
by which coverage and coverages are to be extended, contributions (which
 term shall include all premiums or assessments) levied and paid, claims
 administered and defended against; the procedures by which financial 
reserves shall be established and maintained; and, any other provisions 
necessary for proper administration of the pooled resources. (5) Such
 agreements may provide for the pooling of losses and any other expenses
 so that any or all of the funds contributed by a participating 
governmental entity may be used to pay claims against or with respect to
 any of the other participating governmental entities and any costs or 
expenses, or both, relative to any entity authorized by this part. The 
general assembly hereby finds and determines that all contributions of 
financial and administrative resources made pursuant to an agreement as 
authorized herein are made for a public and governmental purpose and 
that all such contributions benefit the contributing governmental 
entity.(c) (1) Any 
governmental entity choosing to create and maintain a special fund, or 
to enter into an agreement, as authorized in this section for the 
purpose of insuring against the liabilities created by this chapter, 
shall be deemed to be electing to self-insure against the liabilities 
established in this chapter and shall, therefore, have the same limits 
of liability as if the minimum limits of liability established in Â§ 
29-20-403 had been purchased. (2) Should
 any governmental entity choose to enter into an agreement for the 
purpose of insuring for the liabilities of the Workers' Compensation 
Law, as authorized in this section, it shall be deemed to have accepted 
the Workers' Compensation Law pursuant to Â§ 50-6-106(5), and it shall be
 deemed to have insured for such liabilities with an association, 
organization or corporation authorized to transact the business of 
workers' compensation insurance pursuant to Â§ 50-6-405(a)(1). 
Certificates of compliance issued by the legal or administrative entity 
created by the agreement between the governmental entities for this 
purpose shall be accepted by the department of labor and workforce 
development.(d) (1) No 
special fund established by an agreement authorized under this section 
and under title 12, chapter 9, shall be considered as an "insurance 
company" nor shall any contribution of financial or administrative 
resources to such a special fund be considered a "premium" or "gross 
premium" under title 56 for any purpose, including regulation and 
taxation. (2) There shall be 
maintained in any special fund created pursuant to this section such an 
amount of reserve funds as is deemed adequate by the department in 
accordance with reserve standards applicable to private insurance 
companies pursuant to title 56. The department of commerce and insurance
 is authorized to charge reasonable fees to cover expenses incurred in 
the course of investigations and audits conducted for the purpose of 
making this determination, and is authorized to promulgate such rules 
and regulations necessary to accomplish the purposes of this subsection 
(d).(e) Any special fund or legal 
or administrative entity created pursuant to this part shall have the 
power to reinsure, in whole or in part, any of the areas of liability or
 insurability of governmental entities or governmental employees. 
Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, this power to reinsure 
may be exercised through the creation, operation, or ownership, in whole
 or in part, of reinsuring entities, or by entering into contracts or 
treaties of reinsurance with reinsuring entities, or by any combination 
thereof; provided, that the reinsuring entity is lawfully created under 
the laws of its jurisdiction. Any reinsuring entity created pursuant to 
this part may be created only by governmental entities as defined in 
this chapter or by an entity created by governmental entities pursuant 
to this part and the Interlocal Cooperation Act, compiled in title 12, 
chapter 9. Any such reinsuring entity may reinsure only any areas of 
liability or insurability of governmental entities or governmental 
employees.(f) (1) Any legal
 or administrative entity created by an agreement between governmental 
entities to pool their resources to provide workers' compensation 
coverage is entitled to participate in the second injury fund 
established in Â§ 50-6-208 upon the payment to the department of labor 
and workforce development of an annual fee. The annual fee shall be a 
percentage of the total financial contributions for workers' 
compensation coverage received from participating governmental entities 
and earned during a calendar year. The percentage shall equal the 
percentage of insurance company premiums, as measured by the premium 
tax, allocated and paid out by the second injury fund pursuant to Â§ 
50-6-208(b) and (c), during the same year, subject to a maximum of two 
percent (2%). (2) If any such 
legal or administrative entity participates in the second injury fund as
 provided herein and then ceases participation, either the second injury
 fund shall remain liable for a claim for injuries to an employee 
insured by the entity that occurred prior to the termination of 
participation and for which benefits had not been paid prior to the 
termination; provided, that the legal or administrative entity shall 
promptly reimburse the second injury fund for the actual amount of any 
such benefits subsequently paid by the second injury fund; or, within 
thirty (30) days of the cessation of such participation, the legal and 
administrative entity may elect to assume complete liability for such a 
claim. This assumption shall release the second injury fund from any 
duty to defend or liability, but in either case, the recovery by any 
employee shall not be reduced or defeated.(g) (1) (A) An
 insurance pool, special fund, reserve fund, or legal or administrative 
entity administering any such pool or fund created and authorized under 
this section shall be audited annually in accordance with standards 
established by the comptroller of the treasury. A copy of the audit 
shall be filed with the comptroller as soon as practical, but in no 
event later than one hundred twenty (120) days following the end of the 
pool's or reserve fund's fiscal year. Notwithstanding this subdivision 
(g)(1)(A), the operations, books and records of any pool or reserve fund
 shall be subject to audit and review by the comptroller or any person 
authorized by the comptroller. The commissioner of commerce and 
insurance shall assist the comptroller in the audit upon the written 
request by the comptroller. (2) The
 comptroller of the treasury is authorized to charge reasonable fees to 
cover expenses incurred by the comptroller or the commissioner of 
commerce and insurance in the course of audits or investigations 
pursuant to this section. (3) Any
 information obtained by or disclosed to the commissioner of commerce 
and insurance pursuant to an examination, audit or investigation 
conducted under this chapter shall be confidential and shall not be 
disclosed to the public. Any information obtained by or disclosed to the
 comptroller shall be considered working papers of the comptroller and, 
therefore, are confidential. Furthermore, the commissioner of commerce 
and insurance shall not disclose any information relating to the 
reserving of particular claims, if disclosure would likely prejudice the
 fund in settling the claim; provided, however, that this shall not 
apply to any examination report, audit or investigative report prepared 
by the commissioner of commerce and insurance or the comptroller, or to 
any rebuttal to such reports submitted by or on behalf of the fund 
examined. However, nothing contained in this subdivision (g)(3) shall be
 construed as prohibiting the commissioner of commerce and insurance or 
the comptroller from disclosing the information listed in this 
subdivision (g)(3), or any matters relating to that information, to 
state agencies of this or any other state, or to law enforcement 
officials of this or any other state or agency of the federal government
 at any time. (4) Any person 
knowingly or willfully testifying falsely in reference to any matter 
material to the investigation, audit, examination or inquiry commits a 
Class A misdemeanor. (5) Any 
director, trustee, officer, agent, or employee of an insurance pool or 
reserve fund, or any other person who knowingly or willfully makes any 
false certificate, entry, or memorandum upon any of the books or papers 
of any insurance pool or reserve fund upon any statement filed or 
offered to be filed in the department or used in the course of any 
examination, inquiry or investigation with the intent to deceive the 
commissioner of commerce and insurance or any person appointed by the 
commissioner or the comptroller to make the examination, commits a Class
 A misdemeanor.HISTORY: Acts 1973, ch. 345, Â§ 22; 1979, ch. 282, Â§ 1; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 
534, Â§ 1; T.C.A., Â§ 23-3325; Acts 1985, ch. 84, Â§ 5-9; 1989, ch. 164, 
Â§ 1, 2; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 35; 2006, ch. 923, Â§ 3; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 100.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 29 - Remedies and Special Proceedings--->Chapter 20 - Governmental Tort Liability--->Part 4. Funding And Insurance Utilities--->29-20-401.  Creation of reserve or special fund -- Pooling agreements with other governmental entities -- Election to self-insurer.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014. See the version applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section29-20-401. Creation
 of reserve or special fund -- Pooling agreements with other 
governmental entities -- Election to self-insurer. [Applicable to 
injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014. See the version applicable to
 injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) Any
 governmental entity may create and maintain a reserve or special fund 
for the purpose of making payment of claims against it payable pursuant 
to this chapter or for the purpose of purchasing liability insurance to 
protect it from any and all risks created by this chapter.(b) (1) Any
 two (2) or more governmental entities are hereby granted the power, any
 provision of law to the contrary notwithstanding, to enter into an 
agreement or agreements with one another for joint or cooperative action
 to pool their financial and administrative resources for the purpose of
 providing to the participating governmental entities risk management, 
insurance, reinsurance, which is defined to mean reinsurance by an 
entity created under this section, self-insurance, or any combination 
thereof for any and all of the areas of liability or insurability, or 
both, for such governmental entities, including, but not limited to, the
 liabilities created by this chapter (including general and professional
 liabilities), liabilities under the workers' compensation law, 
liabilities under the unemployment compensation law, and motor vehicle 
insurance. All such agreements shall be made pursuant to title 12, 
chapter 9. (2) The power to enter
 into agreements hereunder specifically includes the power to establish a
 separate legal or administrative entity or entities to effectuate such 
agreements or, if no separate legal or administrative entity or entities
 are established, to designate an administrator of the pooled financial 
and administrative resources. An entity so established, or an 
administrator so designated, shall be deemed to have been appointed by 
the governing body of the governmental entity for the purposes of Â§ 
29-20-309, and this appointment shall not be considered as a violation 
of the provision of Â§ 12-9-104(a) dealing with the powers, privileges or
 authority of officers of political subdivisions. (3) Each
 such agreement shall be approved by appropriate resolution or as 
otherwise permitted by the laws of the participating governmental 
entities before any such agreement shall be effective or binding. (4) In
 addition to those items included in any such agreement pursuant to Â§ 
12-9-104(c), the agreement may specify: the nature and scope of 
insurance coverage and coverages to be provided; the method and methods 
by which coverage and coverages are to be extended, contributions (which
 term shall include all premiums or assessments) levied and paid, claims
 administered and defended against; the procedures by which financial 
reserves shall be established and maintained; and, any other provisions 
necessary for proper administration of the pooled resources. (5) Such
 agreements may provide for the pooling of losses and any other expenses
 so that any or all of the funds contributed by a participating 
governmental entity may be used to pay claims against or with respect to
 any of the other participating governmental entities and any costs or 
expenses, or both, relative to any entity authorized by this part. The 
general assembly hereby finds and determines that all contributions of 
financial and administrative resources made pursuant to an agreement as 
authorized herein are made for a public and governmental purpose and 
that all such contributions benefit the contributing governmental 
entity.(c) (1) Any 
governmental entity choosing to create and maintain a special fund, or 
to enter into an agreement, as authorized in this section for the 
purpose of insuring against the liabilities created by this chapter, 
shall be deemed to be electing to self-insure against the liabilities 
established in this chapter and shall, therefore, have the same limits 
of liability as if the minimum limits of liability established in Â§ 
29-20-403 had been purchased. (2) Should
 any governmental entity choose to enter into an agreement for the 
purpose of insuring for the liabilities of the Workers' Compensation 
Law, as authorized in this section, it shall be deemed to have accepted 
the Workers' Compensation Law pursuant to Â§ 50-6-106(5), and it shall be
 deemed to have insured for such liabilities with an association, 
organization or corporation authorized to transact the business of 
workers' compensation insurance pursuant to Â§ 50-6-405(a)(1). 
Certificates of compliance issued by the legal or administrative entity 
created by the agreement between the governmental entities for this 
purpose shall be accepted by the department of labor and workforce 
development.(d) (1) No 
special fund established by an agreement authorized under this section 
and under title 12, chapter 9, shall be considered as an "insurance 
company" nor shall any contribution of financial or administrative 
resources to such a special fund be considered a "premium" or "gross 
premium" under title 56 for any purpose, including regulation and 
taxation. (2) There shall be 
maintained in any special fund created pursuant to this section such an 
amount of reserve funds as is deemed adequate by the department in 
accordance with reserve standards applicable to private insurance 
companies pursuant to title 56. The department of commerce and insurance
 is authorized to charge reasonable fees to cover expenses incurred in 
the course of investigations and audits conducted for the purpose of 
making this determination, and is authorized to promulgate such rules 
and regulations necessary to accomplish the purposes of this subsection 
(d).(e) Any special fund or legal 
or administrative entity created pursuant to this part shall have the 
power to reinsure, in whole or in part, any of the areas of liability or
 insurability of governmental entities or governmental employees. 
Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, this power to reinsure 
may be exercised through the creation, operation, or ownership, in whole
 or in part, of reinsuring entities, or by entering into contracts or 
treaties of reinsurance with reinsuring entities, or by any combination 
thereof; provided, that the reinsuring entity is lawfully created under 
the laws of its jurisdiction. Any reinsuring entity created pursuant to 
this part may be created only by governmental entities as defined in 
this chapter or by an entity created by governmental entities pursuant 
to this part and the Interlocal Cooperation Act, compiled in title 12, 
chapter 9. Any such reinsuring entity may reinsure only any areas of 
liability or insurability of governmental entities or governmental 
employees.(f) (1) Any legal
 or administrative entity created by an agreement between governmental 
entities to pool their resources to provide workers' compensation 
coverage is entitled to participate in the second injury fund 
established in Â§ 50-6-208 upon the payment to the department of labor 
and workforce development of an annual fee. The annual fee shall be a 
percentage of the total financial contributions for workers' 
compensation coverage received from participating governmental entities 
and earned during a calendar year. The percentage shall equal the 
percentage of insurance company premiums, as measured by the premium 
tax, allocated and paid out by the second injury fund pursuant to Â§ 
50-6-208(c) and (d), during the same year, subject to a maximum of two 
percent (2%). (2) If any such 
legal or administrative entity participates in the second injury fund as
 provided herein and then ceases participation, either the second injury
 fund shall remain liable for a claim for injuries to an employee 
insured by the entity that occurred prior to the termination of 
participation and for which benefits had not been paid prior to the 
termination; provided, that the legal or administrative entity shall 
promptly reimburse the second injury fund for the actual amount of any 
such benefits subsequently paid by the second injury fund; or, within 
thirty (30) days of the cessation of such participation, the legal and 
administrative entity may elect to assume complete liability for such a 
claim. This assumption shall release the second injury fund from any 
duty to defend or liability, but in either case, the recovery by any 
employee shall not be reduced or defeated.(g) (1) (A) An
 insurance pool, special fund, reserve fund, or legal or administrative 
entity administering any such pool or fund created and authorized under 
this section shall be audited annually in accordance with standards 
established by the comptroller of the treasury. A copy of the audit 
shall be filed with the comptroller as soon as practical, but in no 
event later than one hundred twenty (120) days following the end of the 
pool's or reserve fund's fiscal year. Notwithstanding this subdivision 
(g)(1)(A), the operations, books and records of any pool or reserve fund
 shall be subject to audit and review by the comptroller or any person 
authorized by the comptroller. The commissioner of commerce and 
insurance shall assist the comptroller in the audit upon the written 
request by the comptroller. (2) The
 comptroller of the treasury is authorized to charge reasonable fees to 
cover expenses incurred by the comptroller or the commissioner of 
commerce and insurance in the course of audits or investigations 
pursuant to this section. (3) Any
 information obtained by or disclosed to the commissioner of commerce 
and insurance pursuant to an examination, audit or investigation 
conducted under this chapter shall be confidential and shall not be 
disclosed to the public. Any information obtained by or disclosed to the
 comptroller shall be considered working papers of the comptroller and, 
therefore, are confidential. Furthermore, the commissioner of commerce 
and insurance shall not disclose any information relating to the 
reserving of particular claims, if disclosure would likely prejudice the
 fund in settling the claim; provided, however, that this shall not 
apply to any examination report, audit or investigative report prepared 
by the commissioner of commerce and insurance or the comptroller, or to 
any rebuttal to such reports submitted by or on behalf of the fund 
examined. However, nothing contained in this subdivision (g)(3) shall be
 construed as prohibiting the commissioner of commerce and insurance or 
the comptroller from disclosing the information listed in this 
subdivision (g)(3), or any matters relating to that information, to 
state agencies of this or any other state, or to law enforcement 
officials of this or any other state or agency of the federal government
 at any time. (4) Any person 
knowingly or willfully testifying falsely in reference to any matter 
material to the investigation, audit, examination or inquiry commits a 
Class A misdemeanor. (5) Any 
director, trustee, officer, agent, or employee of an insurance pool or 
reserve fund, or any other person who knowingly or willfully makes any 
false certificate, entry, or memorandum upon any of the books or papers 
of any insurance pool or reserve fund upon any statement filed or 
offered to be filed in the department or used in the course of any 
examination, inquiry or investigation with the intent to deceive the 
commissioner of commerce and insurance or any person appointed by the 
commissioner or the comptroller to make the examination, commits a Class
 A misdemeanor.HISTORY: Acts 1973, ch. 345, Â§ 22; 1979, ch. 282, Â§ 1; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 
534, Â§ 1; T.C.A., Â§ 23-3325; Acts 1985, ch. 84, Â§ 5-9; 1989, ch. 164, 
Â§ 1, 2; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 35; 2006, ch. 923, Â§ 3.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 29 - Remedies and Special Proceedings--->Chapter 20 - Governmental Tort Liability--->Part 4. Funding And Insurance Utilities--->29-20-402. Authority to levy tax.
===================================================================



 








Title 29 Remedies and Special Proceedings Chapter 20 Governmental Tort Liability Part 4 Funding and Insurance   Notwithstanding any provision of law or charter to the contrary, all governmental entities having the power to tax shall have authority to levy an annual property tax in the amount necessary to pay all claims, settlements, or judgments secured pursuant to the provisions hereof, or to pay the costs to defend against same, or for the purpose of establishing and maintaining a reserve or special fund as the same may be established pursuant to Â§ 29-20-401 for the payment of such claims, settlements, or judgment as may be reasonably anticipated, or to pay the premium for such insurance as herein authorized, including insurance provided for in Â§ 29-20-406, even though as a result of such levy the maximum levy as otherwise restricted by law is exceeded thereby; provided, that in no event shall the revenues derived therefrom be used for any other purpose than those stipulated herein.     [Acts 1973, ch. 345, Â§ 23; 1979, ch. 282, Â§ 2; T.C.A., Â§ 23-3326.]   


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 29 - Remedies and Special Proceedings--->Chapter 20 - Governmental Tort Liability--->Part 4. Funding And Insurance Utilities--->29-20-403. Liability insurance authorized  Compensation for injury  Limits  Limits of liability for self-insuring entities.
===================================================================



 








Title 29 Remedies and Special Proceedings Chapter 20 Governmental Tort Liability Part 4 Funding and Insurance29-20-403. Liability insurance authorized - Compensation for injury - Limits - Limits of liability for self-insuring entities.(a) Any governmental entity may purchase insurance to cover its liability under this chapter. (b) Every policy or contract of insurance purchased by a governmental entity as authorized by this chapter shall provide: (1) (A) Minimum limits of not less than forty thousand dollars ($40,000) for bodily injury or death of any one (1) person in any one (1) accident and not less than eighty thousand dollars ($80,000) for bodily injury or death of any two (2) or more persons in any one (1) accident; provided, that in cases arising out of the ownership, maintenance, and use of automobiles, the minimum limit shall be not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) because of bodily injury or death of one (1) person in any one (1) accident, and to a limit of not less than three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) because of bodily injury or death of two (2) or more persons in any one (1) accident, and to a limit of not less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) for injury to or destruction of property of others in any one (1) accident. In the event the governmental entity is unable to purchase insurance to cover its obligations hereunder, except through an assigned risk pool, then for purposes of Â§ 29-20-311 the limits of liability shall be twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) for injury to any one (1) person resulting from one (1) accident and forty thousand dollars ($40,000) for all injuries resulting from one (1) accident with a limit of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) for property damages resulting from any one (1) accident. If insurance is not purchased through an assigned risk pool then the greater limits above apply; and (B) The provisions of subdivision (b)(1)(A) apply only to actions arising before July 1, 1987; and (2) (A) Minimum limits of not less than one hundred thirty thousand dollars ($130,000) for bodily injury or death of any one (1) person in any one (1) accident, occurrence or act and not less than three hundred fifty thousand dollars ($350,000) for bodily injury or death of all persons in any one (1) accident, occurrence or act, and in cases arising out of the ownership, maintenance and use of automobiles to a limit of not less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) for injury to or destruction of property of others in any one (1) accident, occurrence or act. The provisions of this subdivision (b)(2)(A) apply to any action arising on or after July 1, 1987, but before July 1, 2002; and (B) Minimum limits of not less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000), except as provided otherwise in this section, for injury to or destruction of property of others in any one (1) accident. (3) Minimum limits of not less than two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) for bodily injury or death of any one (1) person in any one (1) accident, occurrence or act, and not less than six hundred thousand dollars ($600,000) for bodily injury or death of all persons in any one (1) accident, occurrence or act, and eighty-five thousand dollars ($85,000) for injury or destruction of property of others in any one (1) accident, occurrence or act. The provisions of this subdivision (b)(3) shall apply to any action arising on or after July 1, 2002, but before July 1, 2007. (4) Minimum limits of not less than three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) for bodily injury or death of any one (1) person in any one (1) accident, occurrence or act, and not less than seven hundred thousand dollars ($700,000) for bodily injury or death of all persons in any one (1) accident, occurrence or act, and one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) for injury or destruction of property of others in any one (1) accident, occurrence or act. The provisions of this subdivision (b)(4) shall apply to any action arising on or after July 1, 2007. (c) Any governmental entity electing to self-insure its liability shall have the same limits of liability as if insurance had been purchased. (d) [Obsolete]. [Acts 1973, ch. 345, Â§ 24; T.C.A., Â§ 23-3327; Acts 1982, ch. 950, Â§ 1, 2; 1987, ch. 405, Â§ 5, 6; 1992, ch. 821, Â§ 1; 1999, ch. 377, Â§ 1; 2001, ch. 424, Â§ 1, 2.] 










===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 29 - Remedies and Special Proceedings--->Chapter 20 - Governmental Tort Liability--->Part 4. Funding And Insurance Utilities--->29-20-404. Waiver of immunity or liability limits  Liabilities arising under federal law.
===================================================================



 








Title 29 Remedies and Special Proceedings Chapter 20 Governmental Tort Liability Part 4 Funding and Insurance29-20-404. Waiver of immunity or liability limits - Liabilities arising under federal law.(a) A governmental entity or the insurer of such governmental entity shall not be held liable for any claim arising under state law for which the governmental entity has immunity under the provisions of this chapter unless the governmental entity has expressly waived such immunity. A governmental entity or the insurer of such governmental entity shall not be held liable for any judgment in excess of the limits of liability set forth in Â§ 29-20-403, unless the governmental entity has expressly waived such limits. The waiver of such immunity or such limits of liability by a governmental entity shall only be valid if such waiver is expressly contained in the provisions or endorsement of a policy or contract of insurance authorized by this chapter to cover its liability under this chapter. (b) The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to prohibit or limit a governmental entity from purchasing a policy or contract of insurance in such amounts of coverage as it deems proper for liabilities which may arise under federal law. If a governmental entity has such policy or contract of insurance for liabilities which may arise under federal law, such policy or contract of insurance shall not be construed or deemed a waiver of any immunity provided in this chapter or of the limits of liability set forth in Â§ 29-20-403, for any claims arising under state law. [Acts 1973, ch. 345, Â§ 25; T.C.A., Â§ 23-3328; Acts 1985, ch. 301, Â§ 1.] 










===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 29 - Remedies and Special Proceedings--->Chapter 20 - Governmental Tort Liability--->Part 4. Funding And Insurance Utilities--->29-20-405. Construction of liability insurance policy not in compliance with law.
===================================================================



 








Title 29 Remedies and Special Proceedings Chapter 20 Governmental Tort Liability Part 4 Funding and Insurance29-20-405. Construction of liability insurance policy not in compliance with law.  Any insurance policy, rider or endorsement purchased to insure against any risk which may arise as a result of the application of this chapter, and which contains any condition or provisions not in compliance with the terms of this chapter, shall not be rendered invalid, but shall be construed and applied in accordance with the intention of this chapter. [Acts 1973, ch. 345, Â§ 26; T.C.A., Â§ 23-3329.]   


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 29 - Remedies and Special Proceedings--->Chapter 20 - Governmental Tort Liability--->Part 4. Funding And Insurance Utilities--->29-20-406. Liability insurance for employees and sheriffs authorized.
===================================================================



 








 Title 29 Remedies and Special Proceedings Chapter 20 Governmental Tort Liability Part 4 Funding and Insurance29-20-406. Liability insurance for employees and sheriffs authorized. (a) A governmental entity may insure any or all of its employees against all or any part of their liability for injury or damage resulting from a negligent act or omission, and any expenditure for such insurance is herewith declared to be for a public purpose, and may be paid from funds derived from the tax levy authorized in Â§ 29-20-402.   (b) Any sheriff or group of sheriffs is authorized to purchase insurance or enter into agreements to insure such sheriff and any or all of the sheriff's employees against all or any part of their personal liability for injury or damages arising as a result of the act or omission of any such sheriff or employee. This authority to purchase insurance or enter into agreements to insure includes specifically the authority to establish a separate legal or administrative entity to effectuate any such agreements or, if a separate legal or administrative entity is not established, to designate an entity to effectuate the purposes of this subsection. Any such purchase or any such agreement which would involve the expenditure of county funds must first be approved by the county legislative body. [Acts 1973, ch. 345, Â§ 27; T.C.A., Â§ 23-3330; Acts 1986, ch. 730, Â§ 1.]   


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 29 - Remedies and Special Proceedings--->Chapter 20 - Governmental Tort Liability--->Part 4. Funding And Insurance Utilities--->29-20-407. Authorization for purchase of insurance without bidding.
===================================================================



 








 Title 29 Remedies and Special Proceedings Chapter 20 Governmental Tort Liability Part 4 Funding and Insurance29-20-407. Authorization for purchase of insurance without bidding. Any governmental entity may purchase any of the insurance authorized by this chapter, without the necessity of public bidding, as required by any public or private act or charter restriction, if such insurance is purchased through a plan authorized and approved by any organization of governmental entities representing cities and counties. [Acts 1974, ch. 780, Â§ 2; T.C.A., Â§ 23-3331.]   


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 29 - Remedies and Special Proceedings--->Chapter 20 - Governmental Tort Liability--->Part 4. Funding And Insurance Utilities--->29-20-408. Catastrophic injuries fund commission created.
===================================================================



 

		Title 29 Remedies and Special Proceedings Chapter 20 Governmental Tort Liability Part 4 Funding and Insurance29-20-408. Catastrophic injuries fund commission created.  (a) There
 is created a commission to design, develop and propose legislation to 
the general assembly to enact and implement a catastrophic injuries fund
 for the purpose of compensating certain specified persons in an amount 
in excess of the governmental tort liability limits for injuries or 
death caused by the actions of an employee of a governmental entity and 
to study other issues relating to governmental tort liability. Such 
commission shall consist of the following members: (1) Four
 (4) members to be appointed jointly by the speaker of the senate and 
speaker of the house of representatives from a list of eight (8) persons
 to be submitted jointly by the Tennessee municipal league, the 
Tennessee county services association, the Tennessee school board 
association, county-owned hospitals, self-insured municipalities, 
Tennessee public utilities and the Tennessee municipal league risk 
management pool by January 1, 2002; (2) Four
 (4) members to be appointed jointly by the speaker of the senate and 
speaker of the house of representatives from a list of eight (8) persons
 submitted by the Tennessee trial lawyers association by January 1, 
2002; (3) The comptroller of the treasury or the comptroller's designee; (4) The state treasurer or the treasurer's designee; (5) The secretary of state or the secretary's designee; and (6) The
 chairs of the judiciary, state and local government and finance, ways 
and means committees of the senate and the civil justice, state 
government, and finance, ways and means committees of the house of 
representatives, or such chairs' designees, who shall be ex officio 
non-voting members of the commission.(b) If
 the speakers are unable to appoint four (4) members from the list of 
eight (8) submitted pursuant to subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2), the 
speakers shall notify the association or entities submitting the initial
 list and they shall have no more than forty-five (45) days to submit a 
new list of eight (8) persons. The speakers may request no more than two
 (2) such additional lists in making the respective four (4) member 
appointments.(c) If for any reason a
 vacancy occurs in the commission membership appointed pursuant to 
subdivision (a)(1) or (a)(2), the association or entities making the 
original appointment shall have no more than thirty (30) days to submit 
to the speakers a list of two (2) persons to fill each such vacancy. The
 speakers shall jointly appoint a member to fill the vacancy in the same
 manner as the initial appointment.(d) The
 commission shall first convene at the call of the state treasurer who 
shall serve as chair and shall coordinate the work of the commission.(e) The
 catastrophic injuries fund commission shall design, develop and propose
 legislation to the general assembly to enact and implement the 
catastrophic injuries fund by July 1, 2006. The commission may report on
 and propose legislation, if necessary, on other issues related to 
governmental tort liability at any time, but no later than July 1, 2006.HISTORY: Acts 2001, ch. 424, Â§ 3; 2013, ch. 236, Â§ 84.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions---> 50-6-101.  Short title -- Controlling law. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 




 First of 2 versions of this section50-6-101. Short title -- Controlling law. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]  This
 chapter shall be cited to as the "Workers' Compensation Law" and shall 
be controlling for any claim for workers' compensation benefits for an 
injury, as defined in this chapter, when the date of injury is on or 
after July 1, 2014. All claims having a date of injury prior to July 1, 
2014, shall be governed by prior law.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 1; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a137; Code 1932, Â§ 6851; 
impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-901; Acts 
2013, ch. 289, Â§ 3.







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-101.  Short title.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.
===================================================================



 




Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-101. Short title. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]  This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Workers' Compensation Law."HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 1; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a137; Code 1932, Â§ 6851; 
impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-901. 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions---> 50-6-102.  Chapter definitions.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-102. Chapter definitions. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires: (1) "Administrator"
 means the chief administrative officer of the division of workers' 
compensation of the department of labor and workforce development; (2) "AMA
 guides" means the 6th edition of the American Medical Association 
Guides to the Evaluation of Permanent Impairment, American Medical 
Association, until a new edition is designated by the general assembly 
in accordance with Â§ 50-6-204(k)(2)(A). The edition that is in effect on
 the date the employee is injured is the edition that shall be 
applicable to the claim; (3) (A) "Average
 weekly wages" means the earnings of the injured employee in the 
employment in which the injured employee was working at the time of the 
injury during the period of fifty-two (52) weeks immediately preceding 
the date of the injury divided by fifty-two (52); but if the injured 
employee lost more than seven (7) days during the period when the 
injured employee did not work, although not in the same week, then the 
earnings for the remainder of the fifty-two (52) weeks shall be divided 
by the number of weeks remaining after the time so lost has been 
deducted; (B) Where the 
employment prior to the injury extended over a period of less than 
fifty-two (52) weeks, the method of dividing the earnings during that 
period by the number of weeks and parts of weeks during which the 
employee earned wages shall be followed; provided, that results just and
 fair to both parties will be obtained; (C) Where,
 by reason of the shortness of the time during which the employee has 
been in the employment of the employer, it is impracticable to compute 
the average weekly wages as defined in this subdivision (3), regard 
shall be had to the average weekly amount that, during the first 
fifty-two (52) weeks prior to the injury or death, was being earned by a
 person in the same grade, employed at the same work by the same 
employer, and if there is no such person so employed, by a person in the
 same grade employed in the same class of employment in the same 
district; (D) Wherever 
allowances of any character made to any employee in lieu of wages are 
specified as part of the wage contract, they shall be deemed a part of 
the employee's earnings; (4) [Deleted by 2013 amendment, effective July 1, 2014.] (5) "Case
 management" means medical case management or the ongoing coordination 
of medical care services provided to an injured or disabled employee on 
all cases where medical care expenses are expected to exceed a 
threshold; (6) "Commissioner" means the commissioner of labor and workforce development; (7) "Construction design professional" means: (A) Any
 person possessing a valid registration or license entitling that person
 to practice the technical profession of architecture, engineering, 
landscape architecture or land surveying in this state; (B) Any
 corporation, partnership, firm or other legal entity authorized by law 
to engage in the technical profession of architecture, engineering, 
landscape architecture or land surveying in this state; or (C) Any person, firm or corporation providing interior space planning or design in this state; (8) "Court of workers' compensation claims" means the adjudicative function within the division of workers' compensation; (9) "Department" means the department of labor and workforce development; (10) "Division"
 or "division of workers' compensation" means the division of workers' 
compensation of the department of labor and workforce development; (11) (A) "Employee"
 includes every person, including a minor, whether lawfully or 
unlawfully employed, the president, any vice president, secretary, 
treasurer or other executive officer of a corporate employer without 
regard to the nature of the duties of the corporate officials, in the 
service of an employer, as employer is defined in subdivision (12), 
under any contract of hire or apprenticeship, written or implied. Any 
reference in this chapter to an employee who has been injured shall, 
where the employee is dead, also include the employee's legal 
representatives, dependents and other persons to whom compensation may 
be payable under this chapter; (B) "Employee"
 includes a sole proprietor or a partner who devotes full time to the 
proprietorship or partnership and elects to be included in the 
definition of employee by filing written notice of the election with the
 division at least thirty (30) days before the occurrence of any injury 
or death, and may at any time withdraw the election by giving notice of 
the withdrawal to the division; (C) The
 provisions of this subdivision (11) allowing a sole proprietor or a 
partner to elect to come under this chapter shall not be construed to 
deny coverage of the sole proprietor or partner under any individual or 
group accident and sickness policy the sole proprietor or partner may 
have in effect, in cases where the sole proprietor or partner has 
elected not to be covered by this chapter, for injuries sustained by the
 sole proprietor or partner that would have been covered by this chapter
 had the election been made, notwithstanding any provision of the 
accident and sickness policy to the contrary. Nothing in this section 
shall require coverage of occupational injuries or sicknesses, if 
occupational injuries or sicknesses are not covered under the terms of 
the policy without reference to eligibility for workers' compensation 
benefits; (D) In a work 
relationship, in order to determine whether an individual is an 
"employee," or whether an individual is a "subcontractor" or an 
"independent contractor," the following factors shall be considered: (i) The right to control the conduct of the work; (ii) The right of termination; (iii) The method of payment; (iv) The freedom to select and hire helpers; (v) The furnishing of tools and equipment; (vi) Self-scheduling of working hours; and (vii) The freedom to offer services to other entities; (E) "Employee"
 does not include a construction services provider, as defined in Â§ 
50-6-901, if the construction services provider is: (i) Listed
 on the registry established pursuant to part 9 of this chapter as 
having a workers' compensation exemption and is working in the service 
of the business entity through which the provider obtained such an 
exemption; (ii) Not covered
 under a policy of workers' compensation insurance maintained by the 
person or entity for whom the provider is providing services; and (iii) Rendering services on a construction project that: (a) Is not a commercial construction project, as defined in Â§ 50-6-901; or (b) Is
 a commercial construction project, as defined in Â§ 50-6-901, and the 
general contractor for whom the construction services provider renders 
construction services complies with Â§ 50-6-914(b)(2); (12) "Employer"
 includes any individual, firm, association or corporation, the receiver
 or trustee of the individual, firm, association or corporation, or the 
legal representative of a deceased employer, using the services of not 
less than five (5) persons for pay, except as provided in Â§ 50-6-902, 
and, in the case of an employer engaged in the mining and production of 
coal, one (1) employee for pay. If the employer is insured, it shall 
include the employer's insurer, unless otherwise provided in this 
chapter; (13) "Injury" and 
"personal injury" mean an injury by accident, a mental injury, 
occupational disease including diseases of the heart, lung and 
hypertension, or cumulative trauma conditions including hearing loss, 
carpal tunnel syndrome or any other repetitive motion conditions, 
arising primarily out of and in the course and scope of employment, that
 causes death, disablement or the need for medical treatment of the 
employee; provided, that: (A) An
 injury is "accidental" only if the injury is caused by a specific 
incident, or set of incidents, arising primarily out of and in the 
course and scope of employment, and is identifiable by time and place of
 occurrence, and shall not include the aggravation of a preexisting 
disease, condition or ailment unless it can be shown to a reasonable 
degree of medical certainty that the aggravation arose primarily out of 
and in the course and scope of employment; (B) An
 injury "arises primarily out of and in the course and scope of 
employment" only if it has been shown by a preponderance of the evidence
 that the employment contributed more than fifty percent (50%) in 
causing the injury, considering all causes; (C) An
 injury causes death, disablement or the need for medical treatment only
 if it has been shown to a reasonable degree of medical certainty that 
it contributed more than fifty percent (50%) in causing the death, 
disablement or need for medical treatment, considering all causes; (D) "Shown
 to a reasonable degree of medical certainty" means that, in the opinion
 of the physician, it is more likely than not considering all causes, as
 opposed to speculation or possibility; (E) The
 opinion of the treating physician, selected by the employee from the 
employer's designated panel of physicians pursuant to Â§ 50-6-204(a)(3), 
shall be presumed correct on the issue of causation but this presumption
 shall be rebuttable by a preponderance of the evidence; (14) (A) "Maximum total benefit" means the sum of all weekly benefits to which a worker may be entitled; (B) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 1992, but before July 1, 2009, 
the maximum total benefit shall be four hundred (400) weeks times the 
maximum weekly benefit, except in instances of permanent total 
disability; (C) For injuries 
occurring on or after July 1, 2009, but before July 1, 2014, the maximum
 total benefit shall be four hundred (400) weeks times one hundred 
percent (100%) of the state's average weekly wage, as determined 
pursuant to subdivision (15)(B), except in instances of permanent total 
disability. Temporary total disability benefits paid to the injured 
worker shall not be included in calculating the maximum total benefit; (D) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 2014, the maximum total benefit 
shall be four hundred fifty (450) weeks times one hundred percent (100%)
 of the state's average weekly wage, as determined pursuant to 
subdivision (15)(B), except in instances of permanent total disability. 
Temporary total disability benefits paid to the injured worker before 
the employee attains maximum medical improvement shall not be included 
in calculating the maximum total benefit; (15) (A) (i) "Maximum weekly benefit" means the maximum compensation payable to the worker per week; (ii) For
 injuries occurring between July 1, 1990, and June 30, 1991, the maximum
 weekly benefit shall be two hundred seventy-three dollars ($273) per 
week; (iii) For injuries 
occurring on or after July 1, 1991, and before August 1, 1992, the 
maximum weekly benefit shall be two hundred ninety-four dollars ($294) 
per week; (iv) For injuries
 occurring on or after August 1, 1992, and through June 30, 1993, the 
maximum weekly benefit shall be sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 
2/3%) of the employee's average weekly wage up to seventy-eight percent 
(78%) of the state's average weekly wage, as determined by the 
department; (v) For 
injuries occurring on or after July 1, 1993, and through June 30, 1994, 
the maximum weekly benefit shall be sixty-six and two thirds percent (66
 2/3%) of the employee's average weekly wage up to eighty-two and 
four-tenths percent (82.4%) of the state's average weekly wage, as 
determined by the department; (vi) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 1994, and through June 30, 1995,
 the maximum weekly benefit shall be sixty-six and two thirds percent 
(66 2/3%) of the employee's average weekly wage up to eighty-six and 
eight-tenths percent (86.8%) of the state's average weekly wage, as 
determined by the department; (vii) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 1995, and through June 30, 1996,
 the maximum weekly benefit shall be sixty-six and two thirds percent 
(66 2/3%) of the employee's average weekly wage up to ninety-one and 
two-tenths percent (91.2%) of the state's average weekly wage, as 
determined by the department; (viii) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 1996, and through June 30, 1997,
 the maximum weekly benefit shall be sixty-six and two thirds percent 
(66 2/3%) of the employee's average weekly wage up to ninety-five and 
six-tenths percent (95.6%) of the state's average weekly wage as 
determined by the department; (ix) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 1997, and through June 30, 2004,
 the maximum weekly benefit shall be sixty-six and two thirds percent 
(66 2/3%) of the employee's average weekly wage up to one hundred 
percent (100%) of the state's average weekly wage as determined by the 
department; (x) For 
injuries occurring on or after July 1, 2004, the maximum weekly benefit 
for permanent disability benefits shall be sixty-six and two thirds 
percent (66 2/3%) of the employee's average weekly wage up to one 
hundred percent (100%) of the state's average weekly wage, as determined
 by the department; and (xi) (a) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 2004, through June 30, 2005, the
 maximum weekly benefit for temporary disability benefits shall be 
sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the employee's average 
weekly wage up to one hundred five percent (105%) of the state's average
 weekly wage, as determined by the department; and (b) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 2005, the maximum weekly benefit
 for temporary disability benefits shall be sixty-six and two thirds 
percent (66 2/3%) of the employee's average weekly wage up to one 
hundred ten percent (110%) of the state's average weekly wage, as 
determined by the department; (B) As
 used in subdivision (15)(A), the state average weekly wage shall be 
determined as of the preceding January 1, and shall be adjusted annually
 using the data from the division and shall be effective on July 1 of 
each year; (16) "Mental injury" 
means a loss of mental faculties or a mental or behavioral disorder, 
arising primarily out of a compensable physical injury or an 
identifiable work related event resulting in a sudden or unusual 
stimulus, and shall not include a psychological or psychiatric response 
due to the loss of employment or employment opportunities; (17) "Minimum
 weekly benefit" means the minimum compensation per week payable to the 
worker, which shall be fifteen percent (15%) of the state's average 
weekly wage, as determined by the department; (18) "Specialty
 practice group" means a group of Tennessee licensed physicians, 
surgeons, or chiropractors providing medical care services of the same 
or similar medical specialty as each other and operating out of the same
 physical location; and (19) "Utilization
 review" means evaluation of the necessity, appropriateness, efficiency 
and quality of medical care services, including the prescribing of one 
(1) or more Schedule II, III, or IV controlled substances for pain 
management for a period of time exceeding ninety (90) days from the 
initial prescription of such controlled substances, provided to an 
injured or disabled employee based on medically accepted standards and 
an objective evaluation of those services provided; provided, that 
"utilization review" does not include the establishment of approved 
payment levels, a review of medical charges or fees, or an initial 
evaluation of an injured or disabled employee by a physician 
specializing in pain management. (20) [Deleted by 2013 amendment, effective July 1, 2014.]HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 2; 1923, ch. 84, Â§ 2; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a138; 
Code 1932, Â§ 6852; Acts 1941, ch. 90, Â§ 1; 1947, ch. 139, Â§ 1; C. Supp. 
1950, Â§ 6852; Acts 1961, ch. 184, Â§ 1; 1963, ch. 362, Â§ 2; 1971, ch. 
300, Â§ 1; 1977, ch. 339, Â§ 1; 1978, ch. 499, Â§ 1; 1978, ch. 687, Â§ 1; 
impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1, 3; Acts 1981, ch. 239, Â§ 1; T.C.A. 
(orig. ed.), Â§ 50-902; Acts 1985, ch. 393, Â§ 1; 1988, ch. 923, Â§ 1; 
1990, ch. 990, Â§ 1; 1991, ch. 225, Â§ 1; 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 2, 19, 20, 28;
 1997, ch. 330, Â§ 1; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2002, ch. 833, Â§ 4, 5; 2004, 
ch. 962, Â§ 22, 23, 32; 2008, ch. 1025, Â§ 1; 2009, ch. 599, Â§ 1-3; 
2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 3, 14; 2011, ch. 416, Â§ 8; 2011, ch. 422, Â§ 1; 2012, 
ch. 1100, Â§ 1; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 2; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 4-9; 2014, ch. 903,
 Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-102.  Chapter definitions.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-102. Chapter definitions. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires: (1) "Administrator"
 means the chief administrative officer of the division of workers' 
compensation of the department of labor and workforce development; (2) "AMA
 guides" means the 6th edition of the American Medical Association 
Guides to the Evaluation of Permanent Impairment, American Medical 
Association, until a new edition is designated by the general assembly 
in accordance with Â§ 50-6-204(d)(3)(C). The edition that is in effect on
 the date the employee is injured is the edition that shall be 
applicable to the claim; (3) (A) "Average
 weekly wages" means the earnings of the injured employee in the 
employment in which the injured employee was working at the time of the 
injury during the period of fifty-two (52) weeks immediately preceding 
the date of the injury divided by fifty-two (52); but if the injured 
employee lost more than seven (7) days during the period when the 
injured employee did not work, although not in the same week, then the 
earnings for the remainder of the fifty-two (52) weeks shall be divided 
by the number of weeks remaining after the time so lost has been 
deducted; (B) Where the 
employment prior to the injury extended over a period of less than 
fifty-two (52) weeks, the method of dividing the earnings during that 
period by the number of weeks and parts of weeks during which the 
employee earned wages shall be followed; provided, that results just and
 fair to both parties will be obtained; (C) Where,
 by reason of the shortness of the time during which the employee has 
been in the employment of the employer, it is impracticable to compute 
the average weekly wages as defined in this subdivision (3), regard 
shall be had to the average weekly amount that, during the first 
fifty-two (52) weeks prior to the injury or death, was being earned by a
 person in the same grade, employed at the same work by the same 
employer, and if there is no such person so employed, by a person in the
 same grade employed in the same class of employment in the same 
district; (D) Wherever 
allowances of any character made to any employee in lieu of wages are 
specified as part of the wage contract, they shall be deemed a part of 
the employee's earnings; (4) "Benefit
 review conference" means a nonadversarial, informal dispute resolution 
proceeding to mediate and resolve workers' compensation disputes as 
provided in this chapter; (5) "Case
 management" means medical case management or the ongoing coordination 
of medical care services provided to an injured or disabled employee on 
all cases where medical care expenses are expected to exceed a 
threshold; (6) "Commissioner" means the commissioner of labor and workforce development; (7) "Construction design professional" means: (A) Any
 person possessing a valid registration or license entitling that person
 to practice the technical profession of architecture, engineering, 
landscape architecture or land surveying in this state; (B) Any
 corporation, partnership, firm or other legal entity authorized by law 
to engage in the technical profession of architecture, engineering, 
landscape architecture or land surveying in this state; or (C) Any person, firm or corporation providing interior space planning or design in this state; (8) "Department" means the department of labor and workforce development; (9) "Division"
 or "division of workers' compensation" means the division of workers' 
compensation of the department of labor and workforce development; (10) (A) "Employee"
 includes every person, including a minor, whether lawfully or 
unlawfully employed, the president, any vice president, secretary, 
treasurer or other executive officer of a corporate employer without 
regard to the nature of the duties of the corporate officials, in the 
service of an employer, as employer is defined in subdivision (11), 
under any contract of hire or apprenticeship, written or implied. Any 
reference in this chapter to an employee who has been injured shall, 
where the employee is dead, also include the employee's legal 
representatives, dependents and other persons to whom compensation may 
be payable under this chapter; (B) "Employee"
 includes a sole proprietor or a partner who devotes full time to the 
proprietorship or partnership and elects to be included in the 
definition of employee by filing written notice of the election with the
 division at least thirty (30) days before the occurrence of any injury 
or death, and may at any time withdraw the election by giving notice of 
the withdrawal to the division; (C) The
 provisions of this subdivision (10), allowing a sole proprietor or a 
partner to elect to come under this chapter, shall not be construed to 
deny coverage of the sole proprietor or partner under any individual or 
group accident and sickness policy the sole proprietor or partner may 
have in effect, in cases where the sole proprietor or partner has 
elected not to be covered by this chapter, for injuries sustained by the
 sole proprietor or partner that would have been covered by this chapter
 had the election been made, notwithstanding any provision of the 
accident and sickness policy to the contrary. Nothing in this section 
shall require coverage of occupational injuries or sicknesses, if 
occupational injuries or sicknesses are not covered under the terms of 
the policy without reference to eligibility for workers' compensation 
benefits; (D) In a work 
relationship, in order to determine whether an individual is an 
"employee," or whether an individual is a "subcontractor" or an 
"independent contractor," the following factors shall be considered: (i) The right to control the conduct of the work; (ii) The right of termination; (iii) The method of payment; (iv) The freedom to select and hire helpers; (v) The furnishing of tools and equipment; (vi) Self-scheduling of working hours; and (vii) The freedom to offer services to other entities; (E) "Employee"
 does not include a construction services provider, as defined in Â§ 
50-6-901, if the construction services provider is: (i) Listed
 on the registry established pursuant to part 9 of this chapter as 
having a workers' compensation exemption and is working in the service 
of the business entity through which the provider obtained such an 
exemption; (ii) Not covered
 under a policy of workers' compensation insurance maintained by the 
person or entity for whom the provider is providing services; and (iii) Rendering services on a construction project that: (a) Is not a commercial construction project, as defined in Â§ 50-6-901; or (b) Is
 a commercial construction project, as defined in Â§ 50-6-901, and the 
general contractor for whom the construction services provider renders 
construction services complies with Â§ 50-6-914(b)(2); (11) "Employer"
 includes any individual, firm, association or corporation, the receiver
 or trustee of the individual, firm, association or corporation, or the 
legal representative of a deceased employer, using the services of not 
less than five (5) persons for pay, except as provided in Â§ 50-6-902, 
and, in the case of an employer engaged in the mining and production of 
coal, one (1) employee for pay. If the employer is insured, it shall 
include the employer's insurer, unless otherwise provided in this 
chapter; (12) "Injury" and "personal injury": (A) Mean
 an injury by accident, arising out of and in the course of employment, 
that causes either disablement or death of the employee; provided, that: (i) An
 injury is "accidental" only if the injury is caused by a specific 
incident, or set of incidents, arising out of and in the course of 
employment, and is identifiable by time and place of occurrence; and (ii) The
 opinion of the physician, selected by the employee from the employer's 
designated panel of physicians pursuant to Â§ 50-6-204(a)(4)(A) or 
(a)(4)(B), shall be presumed correct on the issue of causation but said 
presumption shall be rebutted by a preponderance of the evidence; (B) Include a mental injury arising out of and in the course of employment; and (C) Do not include: (i) A disease in any form, except when the disease arises out of and in the course and scope of employment; or (ii) Cumulative
 trauma conditions, hearing loss, carpal tunnel syndrome, or any other 
repetitive motion conditions unless such conditions arose primarily out 
of and in the course and scope of employment; (13) (A) "Maximum total benefit" means the sum of all weekly benefits to which a worker may be entitled; (B) For
 injuries occurring between July 1, 1990, and June 30, 1991, the maximum
 total benefit shall be one hundred nine thousand two hundred dollars 
($109,200); (C) For injuries 
occurring on or after July 1, 1991, and before August 1, 1992, the 
maximum total benefit shall be one hundred seventeen thousand six 
hundred dollars ($117,600); (D) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 1992, the maximum total benefit 
shall be four hundred (400) weeks times the maximum weekly benefit 
except in instances of permanent total disability; and (E) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 2009, the maximum total benefit 
shall be four hundred (400) times one hundred percent (100%) of the 
state's average weekly wage, as determined pursuant to subdivision 
(14)(B), except in instances of permanent total disability. Temporary 
total disability benefits paid to the injured worker shall not be 
included in calculating the maximum total benefit; (14) (A) (i) "Maximum weekly benefit" means the maximum compensation payable to the worker per week; (ii) For
 injuries occurring between July 1, 1990, and June 30, 1991, the maximum
 weekly benefit shall be two hundred seventy-three dollars ($273) per 
week; (iii) For injuries 
occurring on or after July 1, 1991, and before August 1, 1992, the 
maximum weekly benefit shall be two hundred ninety-four dollars ($294) 
per week; (iv) For injuries
 occurring on or after August 1, 1992, and through June 30, 1993, the 
maximum weekly benefit shall be sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 
2/3%) of the employee's average weekly wage up to seventy-eight percent 
(78%) of the state's average weekly wage, as determined by the 
department; (v) For 
injuries occurring on or after July 1, 1993, and through June 30, 1994, 
the maximum weekly benefit shall be sixty-six and two thirds percent (66
 2/3%) of the employee's average weekly wage up to eighty-two and 
four-tenths percent (82.4%) of the state's average weekly wage, as 
determined by the department; (vi) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 1994, and through June 30, 1995,
 the maximum weekly benefit shall be sixty-six and two thirds percent 
(66 2/3%) of the employee's average weekly wage up to eighty-six and 
eight-tenths percent (86.8%) of the state's average weekly wage, as 
determined by the department; (vii) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 1995, and through June 30, 1996,
 the maximum weekly benefit shall be sixty-six and two thirds percent 
(66 2/3%) of the employee's average weekly wage up to ninety-one and 
two-tenths percent (91.2%) of the state's average weekly wage, as 
determined by the department; (viii) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 1996, and through June 30, 1997,
 the maximum weekly benefit shall be sixty-six and two thirds percent 
(66 2/3%) of the employee's average weekly wage up to ninety-five and 
six-tenths percent (95.6%) of the state's average weekly wage as 
determined by the department; (ix) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 1997, and through June 30, 2004,
 the maximum weekly benefit shall be sixty-six and two thirds percent 
(66 2/3%) of the employee's average weekly wage up to one hundred 
percent (100%) of the state's average weekly wage as determined by the 
department; (x) For 
injuries occurring on or after July 1, 2004, the maximum weekly benefit 
for permanent disability benefits shall be sixty-six and two thirds 
percent (66 2/3%) of the employee's average weekly wage up to one 
hundred percent (100%) of the state's average weekly wage, as determined
 by the department; and (xi) (a) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 2004, through June 30, 2005, the
 maximum weekly benefit for temporary disability benefits shall be 
sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the employee's average 
weekly wage up to one hundred five percent (105%) of the state's average
 weekly wage, as determined by the department; and (b) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 2005, the maximum weekly benefit
 for temporary disability benefits shall be sixty-six and two thirds 
percent (66 2/3%) of the employee's average weekly wage up to one 
hundred ten percent (110%) of the state's average weekly wage, as 
determined by the department; (B) As
 used in subdivision (14)(A), the state average weekly wage shall be 
determined as of the preceding January 1, and shall be adjusted annually
 using the data from the division and shall be effective on July 1 of 
each year; (15) "Mental injury" 
means a loss of mental faculties or a mental or behavioral disorder 
where the proximate cause is a compensable physical injury resulting in a
 permanent disability, or an identifiable work-related event resulting 
in a sudden or unusual mental stimulus. A mental injury shall not 
include a psychological or psychiatric response due to the loss of 
employment or employment opportunities; (16) (A) "Minimum weekly benefit" means the minimum compensation per week payable to the worker; (B) For
 injuries occurring between July 1, 1985, and June 30, 1986, the minimum
 weekly benefit shall be twenty dollars ($20.00) per week; (C) For
 injuries occurring between July 1, 1986, and June 30, 1987, the minimum
 weekly benefit shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per week; (D) For
 injuries occurring between July 1, 1987, and June 30, 1988, the minimum
 weekly benefit shall be thirty dollars ($30.00) per week; (E) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 1988, and before July 1, 1993, 
the minimum weekly benefit shall be thirty-five dollars ($35.00) per 
week; and (F) For injuries 
occurring on or after July 1, 1993, the minimum weekly benefit shall be 
fifteen percent (15%) of the state's average weekly wage, as determined 
by the department; (17) "Utilization
 review" means evaluation of the necessity, appropriateness, efficiency 
and quality of medical care services, including the prescribing of one 
(1) or more Schedule II, III, or IV controlled substances for pain 
management for a period of time exceeding ninety (90) days from the 
initial prescription of such controlled substances, provided to an 
injured or disabled employee based on medically accepted standards and 
an objective evaluation of those services provided; provided, that 
"utilization review" does not include the establishment of approved 
payment levels, a review of medical charges or fees, or an initial 
evaluation of an injured or disabled employee by a physician 
specializing in pain management; and (18) "Workers'
 compensation specialist" or "specialist" means a department employee 
who provides information and communication services regarding workers' 
compensation for employees and employers, and who conducts benefit 
review conferences and performs other duties as provided in this 
chapter.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 2; 1923, ch. 84, Â§ 2; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a138; 
Code 1932, Â§ 6852; Acts 1941, ch. 90, Â§ 1; 1947, ch. 139, Â§ 1; C. Supp. 
1950, Â§ 6852; Acts 1961, ch. 184, Â§ 1; 1963, ch. 362, Â§ 2; 1971, ch. 
300, Â§ 1; 1977, ch. 339, Â§ 1; 1978, ch. 499, Â§ 1; 1978, ch. 687, Â§ 1; 
impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1, 3; Acts 1981, ch. 239, Â§ 1; T.C.A. 
(orig. ed.), Â§ 50-902; Acts 1985, ch. 393, Â§ 1; 1988, ch. 923, Â§ 1; 
1990, ch. 990, Â§ 1; 1991, ch. 225, Â§ 1; 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 2, 19, 20, 28;
 1997, ch. 330, Â§ 1; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2002, ch. 833, Â§ 4, 5; 2004, 
ch. 962, Â§ 22, 23, 32; 2008, ch. 1025, Â§ 1; 2009, ch. 599, Â§ 1-3; 
2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 3, 14; 2011, ch. 416, Â§ 8; 2011, ch. 422, Â§ 1; 2012, 
ch. 1100, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-103.  Scope of chapter.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] 
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-103. Scope of chapter. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]  (a) Every
 employer and employee subject to this chapter, shall, respectively, pay
 and accept compensation for personal injury or death by accident 
arising primarily out of and in the course and scope of employment 
without regard to fault as a cause of the injury or death; provided, 
that any person who has an exemption pursuant to Â§ 50-6-104 or part 9 of
 this chapter shall not be bound if the employee has given, prior to any
 accident resulting in injury or death, notice to be exempted from this 
chapter as provided in this part.(b) [Deleted by 2013 amendment, effective July 1, 2014.]HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 3; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a139; Code 1932, Â§ 6853; 
Acts 1973, ch. 379, Â§ 1; 1975, ch. 198, Â§ 1; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 
534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-903; Acts 2011, ch. 422, Â§ 2; 2013, 
ch. 289, Â§ 10, 11.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-103.  Scope of chapter.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 




 50-6-103. Scope of chapter. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) Every
 employer and employee subject to this chapter, shall, respectively, pay
 and accept compensation for personal injury or death by accident 
arising out of and in the course of employment without regard to fault 
as a cause of the injury or death; provided, that any person who has an 
exemption pursuant to Â§ 50-6-104 or part 9 of this chapter shall not be 
bound if the employee has given, prior to any accident resulting in 
injury or death, notice to be exempted from this chapter as provided in 
this part.(b) The election by any 
employee who is a corporate officer of the employer to be exempted from 
this chapter, shall not reduce the number of employees of the employer 
for the purposes of determining the requirements of coverage of the 
employer under this chapter.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 3; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a139; Code 1932, Â§ 6853; 
Acts 1973, ch. 379, Â§ 1; 1975, ch. 198, Â§ 1; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 
534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-903; Acts 2011, ch. 422, Â§ 2.







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-104.  Election of corporate officer to be exempt from chapter.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-104. Election
 of corporate officer to be exempt from chapter. [Applicable to 
injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) Any
 officer of a corporation may elect to be exempt from the operation of 
this chapter. Any officer who elects exemption and who, after electing 
exemption then revokes that exemption, shall give notice to that effect 
in accordance with a form prescribed by the division.(b) Notice
 given pursuant to subsection (a) shall be given thirty (30) days prior 
to any accident resulting in injury or death; provided, that if any 
injury or death occurs less than thirty (30) days after the date of 
employment, notice of the exemption or acceptance given at the time of 
employment shall be sufficient notice of exemption.(c) The
 notice of election not to accept this chapter, shall be as follows: the
 employee shall give written or printed notice to the employer of the 
employee's election not to be bound by the Workers' Compensation Law and
 file with the division, a duplicate, with proof of service on the 
employer attached to the notice, together with an affidavit of the 
employee that the action of the employee in rejecting the Workers' 
Compensation Law was not advised, counseled or encouraged by the 
employer or by anyone acting for the employer.(d) [Deleted by 2013 amendment, effective July 1, 2014.](e) The
 election by any employee, who is a corporate officer of the employer, 
to be exempted from this chapter, shall not reduce the number of 
employees of the employer for the purposes of determining the 
requirements of coverage of the employer under this chapter.(f) Every
 employee who is a corporate officer and who elects not to operate under
 this chapter, in any action to recover damages for personal injury or 
death by accident brought against an employer who has elected to operate
 under this chapter, shall proceed as at common law, and the employer 
may make use of all common law defenses. This section shall not apply to
 any officer of a corporation, member of a limited liability company, 
partner, or sole proprietor who is engaged in the construction industry,
 as defined by Â§ 50-6-901; instead, part 9 of this chapter shall apply 
to such officer, member, partner or sole proprietor.HISTORY: Acts 1975, ch. 198, Â§ 2; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A., Â§ 
50-904; Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 4; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 12; 2014, ch. 903, Â§ 
2.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-104.  Election of corporate officer to be exempt from chapter.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-104. Election of corporate officer to be exempt from chapter. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) Any
 officer of a corporation may elect to be exempt from the operation of 
this chapter. Any officer who elects exemption and who, after electing 
exemption then revokes that exemption, shall give notice to that effect 
in accordance with a form prescribed by the division.(b) Notice
 given pursuant to subsection (a) shall be given thirty (30) days prior 
to any accident resulting in injury or death; provided, that if any 
injury or death occurs less than thirty (30) days after the date of 
employment, notice of the exemption or acceptance given at the time of 
employment shall be sufficient notice of exemption.(c) The
 notice of election not to accept this chapter, shall be as follows: the
 employee shall give written or printed notice to the employer of the 
employee's election not to be bound by the Workers' Compensation Law and
 file with the division, a duplicate, with proof of service on the 
employer attached to the notice, together with an affidavit of the 
employee that the action of the employee in rejecting the Workers' 
Compensation Law was not advised, counseled or encouraged by the 
employer or by anyone acting for the employer.(d) This
 section shall not apply to any officer of a corporation, member of a 
limited liability company, partner, or sole proprietor who is engaged in
 the construction industry, as defined by Â§ 50-6-901; instead, part 9 of
 this chapter shall apply to such officer, member, partner or sole 
proprietor.HISTORY: Acts 1975, ch. 198, Â§ 2; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A., Â§ 50-904; Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 4.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-105.  Relief associations or funds for benefit of employees, spouses and dependents unaffected.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-105. Relief associations 
or funds for benefit of employees, spouses and dependents unaffected. 
 [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 
1, 2014.] Nothing in this chapter 
shall be construed as amending or repealing any statute or municipal 
ordinance relating to associations or funds for the relief, pensioning, 
retirement or other benefit of any employees of the municipal employer, 
or of the surviving spouses, children or dependents of the employees of 
the municipal employer, or as in any manner interfering with any statute
 or municipal ordinance as now or hereafter established.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 5; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a141; Code 1932, Â§ 6855; 
impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-905.    




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-106.  Employments not covered.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-106. Employments not covered. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] This chapter shall not apply to: (1) (A) Any
 common carrier doing an interstate business while engaged in interstate
 commerce, which common carrier and the interstate business are already 
regulated as to employer's liability or workers' compensation by act of 
congress, it being the purpose of this law to regulate all such business
 that the congress has not regulated in the exercise of its jurisdiction
 to regulate interstate commerce; provided, that this chapter shall 
apply to those employees of the common carriers with respect to whom a 
rule of liability is not provided by act of congress; provided, further,
 that no common carrier by motor vehicle operating pursuant to a 
certificate of public convenience and necessity shall be deemed the 
employer of a leased-operator or owner-operator of a motor vehicle or 
vehicles under a contract to such a common carrier; (B) Notwithstanding
 subdivision (1)(A), a leased operator or a leased owner/operator of a 
motor vehicle under contract to a common carrier may elect to be covered
 under any policy of workers' compensation insurance insuring the common
 carrier upon written agreement of the common carrier, by filing written
 notice of the contract, on a form prescribed by the administrator, with
 the division; provided, that the election shall in no way terminate or 
affect the independent contractor status of the leased operator or 
leased owner/operator for any other purpose than to permit workers' 
compensation coverage. The leased operator or leased owner/operator 
electing coverage as provided in this section shall establish the 
validity of and satisfy the terms and conditions of all contractual 
agreements between the parties prior to the payment of any claim for 
workers' compensation. The election of coverage may be terminated by the
 leased operator, leased owner/operator, or common carrier by providing 
written notice of the termination to the division and to all other 
parties consenting to the prior election. The termination shall be 
effective thirty (30) days from the date of the notice to all other 
parties consenting to the prior election and to the division; (C) The
 venue of any dispute arising out of or connected with the validity of 
the contractual relationship or terms of the written agreement upon 
which the workers' compensation benefits are extended between the common
 carrier and a leased operator or leased owner/operator shall be the 
chancery court of the county where the contract was entered or the 
county of the principal place of business of the common carrier; (D) 
 Whenever the leased operator, the leased owner/operator or the carrier 
files a suit to resolve a contract dispute pursuant to subdivision (C), 
the statute of limitations for filing a petition for benefit 
determination with the division shall be tolled for ninety (90) days 
after final judgment has been entered in the suit including all appeals.
 In cases where a leased operator or leased owner/operator has filed a 
petition for benefit determination before the leased operator, leased 
owner/operator or the carrier has filed a suit pursuant to subdivision 
(C) to resolve a contract dispute, the petition for benefit 
determination shall be held in abeyance by the division until final 
judgment, including all appeals, has been entered in the suit filed 
pursuant to subdivision (C). (2) Any
 person whose employment at the time of injury is casual, that is, one 
who is not employed in the usual course of trade, business, profession 
or occupation of the employer; (3) Domestic servants and employers of domestic servants; (4) Farm or agricultural laborers and employers of those laborers; (5) In
 cases where fewer than five (5) persons are regularly employed, except 
as provided in Â§ 50-6-902; provided, that in those cases the employer 
may accept this chapter by filing written notice of the acceptance with 
the division at least thirty (30) days before the happening of any 
accident or death, and may at any time withdraw the acceptance by giving
 like notice of withdrawal; (6) The
 state, counties of the state and municipal corporations; provided, that
 the state, any county or municipal corporation may accept this chapter 
by filing written notice of the acceptance with the division under the 
administrator, at least thirty (30) days before the happening of any 
accident or death, and may at any time withdraw the acceptance by giving
 like notice of the withdrawal. The state, any county or municipal 
corporation may accept this chapter as to any department or division of 
the state, county or municipal corporation by filing written notice of 
acceptance with the division under the administrator, at least thirty 
(30) days before the happening of any accident or death and may, at any 
time, withdraw acceptance for the division or department by giving like 
notice of the withdrawal, and the acceptance by the state, county or 
municipal corporation for any department or division of the state, 
county or municipal corporation shall have effect only of making the 
department or division designated subject to the terms of this chapter; 
or (7) Any person performing 
voluntary service as a ski patrolperson who receives no compensation for
 the services other than meals, lodging or the use of ski tow or ski 
lift facilities or any combination of meals, lodging and the use of ski 
tow or ski lift facilities.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 6; 1923, ch. 84, Â§ 2, 5; Shan. Supp., Â§ 
3608a142; Code 1932, Â§ 6856; Acts 1941, ch. 20, Â§ 1; 1941, ch. 90, Â§ 2; 
1943, ch. 120, Â§ 1; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6856; Acts 1976, ch. 495, Â§ 1; 
1976, ch. 602, Â§ 1; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. 
ed.), Â§ 50-906; Acts 1988, ch. 525, Â§ 1; 1997, ch. 330, Â§ 2; 1999, ch. 
520, Â§ 41; 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 15; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1; 2014, ch. 633, Â§ 
1, 2.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions---> 50-6-106.  Employments not covered.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-106. Employments not covered. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] This chapter shall not apply to: (1) (A) Any
 common carrier doing an interstate business while engaged in interstate
 commerce, which common carrier and the interstate business are already 
regulated as to employer's liability or workers' compensation by act of 
congress, it being the purpose of this law to regulate all such business
 that the congress has not regulated in the exercise of its jurisdiction
 to regulate interstate commerce; provided, that this chapter shall 
apply to those employees of the common carriers with respect to whom a 
rule of liability is not provided by act of congress; provided, further,
 that no common carrier by motor vehicle operating pursuant to a 
certificate of public convenience and necessity shall be deemed the 
employer of a leased-operator or owner-operator of a motor vehicle or 
vehicles under a contract to such a common carrier; (B) Notwithstanding
 subdivision (1)(A), a leased operator or a leased owner/operator of a 
motor vehicle under contract to a common carrier may elect to be covered
 under any policy of workers' compensation insurance insuring the common
 carrier upon written agreement of the common carrier, by filing written
 notice of the contract, on a form prescribed by the commissioner, with 
the division; provided, that the election shall in no way terminate or 
affect the independent contractor status of the leased operator or 
leased owner/operator for any other purpose than to permit workers' 
compensation coverage. The election of coverage may be terminated by the
 leased operator, leased owner/operator, or common carrier by providing 
written notice of the termination to the division and to all other 
parties consenting to the prior election. The termination shall be 
effective thirty (30) days from the date of the notice to all other 
parties consenting to the prior election and to the division; (2) Any
 person whose employment at the time of injury is casual, that is, one 
who is not employed in the usual course of trade, business, profession 
or occupation of the employer; (3) Domestic servants and employers of domestic servants; (4) Farm or agricultural laborers and employers of those laborers; (5) In
 cases where fewer than five (5) persons are regularly employed, except 
as provided in Â§ 50-6-902; provided, that in those cases the employer 
may accept this chapter by filing written notice of the acceptance with 
the division at least thirty (30) days before the happening of any 
accident or death, and may at any time withdraw the acceptance by giving
 like notice of withdrawal; (6) The
 state, counties of the state and municipal corporations; provided, that
 the state, any county or municipal corporation may accept this chapter 
by filing written notice of the acceptance with the division under the 
administrator, at least thirty (30) days before the happening of any 
accident or death, and may at any time withdraw the acceptance by giving
 like notice of the withdrawal. The state, any county or municipal 
corporation may accept this chapter as to any department or division of 
the state, county or municipal corporation by filing written notice of 
acceptance with the division under the administrator, at least thirty 
(30) days before the happening of any accident or death and may, at any 
time, withdraw acceptance for the division or department by giving like 
notice of the withdrawal, and the acceptance by the state, county or 
municipal corporation for any department or division of the state, 
county or municipal corporation shall have effect only of making the 
department or division designated subject to the terms of this chapter; 
or (7) Any person performing 
voluntary service as a ski patrolperson who receives no compensation for
 the services other than meals, lodging or the use of ski tow or ski 
lift facilities or any combination of meals, lodging and the use of ski 
tow or ski lift facilities.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 6; 1923, ch. 84, Â§ 2, 5; Shan. Supp., Â§ 
3608a142; Code 1932, Â§ 6856; Acts 1941, ch. 20, Â§ 1; 1941, ch. 90, Â§ 2; 
1943, ch. 120, Â§ 1; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6856; Acts 1976, ch. 495, Â§ 1; 
1976, ch. 602, Â§ 1; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. 
ed.), Â§ 50-906; Acts 1988, ch. 525, Â§ 1; 1997, ch. 330, Â§ 2; 1999, ch. 
520, Â§ 41; 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 15.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-107.  Application to coal mine operators and employees.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-107. Application to coal mine operators and employees. 
 [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 
1, 2014.] This chapter shall apply to coal mine operators and to their employees.HISTORY: Code 1932, Â§ 6857; Acts 1972, ch. 699, Â§ 1; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-907.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-108.  Right to compensation exclusive.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-108. Right to compensation exclusive. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) The
 rights and remedies granted to an employee subject to this chapter, on 
account of personal injury or death by accident, including a minor 
whether lawfully or unlawfully employed, shall exclude all other rights 
and remedies of the employee, the employee's personal representative, 
dependents or next of kin, at common law or otherwise, on account of the
 injury or death.(b) No employer 
who fails to secure payment of compensation as required by this chapter,
 shall be permitted to defend the suit upon any of the following 
grounds, in any suit brought against the employer by an employee covered
 by this chapter or by the dependent or dependents of the employee, to 
recover damages for personal injury or death arising from an accident: (1) The employee was negligent; (2) The injury was caused by the negligence of a fellow servant or fellow employee; or (3) The employee had assumed the risk of the injury.(c) This
 section shall not be construed to preclude third party indemnity 
actions against an employer who has expressly contracted to indemnify 
the third party.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 8; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a157; Code 1932, Â§ 6859; 
Acts 1961, ch. 184, Â§ 2; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. 
(orig. ed.), Â§ 50-908; Acts 1985, ch. 326, Â§ 1; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 13.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-108.  Right to compensation exclusive.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-108. Right to compensation exclusive. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) The
 rights and remedies granted to an employee subject to this chapter, on 
account of personal injury or death by accident, including a minor 
whether lawfully or unlawfully employed, shall exclude all other rights 
and remedies of the employee, the employee's personal representative, 
dependents or next of kin, at common law or otherwise, on account of the
 injury or death.(b) This section 
shall not be construed to preclude third party indemnity actions against
 an employer who has expressly contracted to indemnify the third party.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 8; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a157; Code 1932, Â§ 6859; 
Acts 1961, ch. 184, Â§ 2; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. 
(orig. ed.), Â§ 50-908; Acts 1985, ch. 326, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-109.  Nonperformance of statutory duty not relieved.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-109. Nonperformance of statutory duty not relieved. 
 [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 
1, 2014.] Nothing in this chapter 
shall be construed to relieve any employer or employee from penalty for 
failure or neglect to perform any statutory duty.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 9; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a158; Code 1932, Â§ 6860; 
impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-909.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-110.  Injuries not covered -- Drug and alcohol testing.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-110. Injuries not covered -- Drug and alcohol testing. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) No compensation shall be allowed for an injury or death due to: (1) The employee's willful misconduct; (2) The employee's intentional self-inflicted injury; (3) The employee's intoxication or illegal drug usage; (4) The employee's willful failure or refusal to use a safety device; (5) The employee's willful failure to perform a duty required by law; or (6) The
 employee's voluntary participation in recreational, social, athletic or
 exercise activities, including, but not limited to, athletic events, 
competitions, parties, picnics, or exercise programs, whether or not the
 employer pays some or all of the costs of the activities unless: (A) Participation was expressly or impliedly required by the employer; (B) Participation produced a direct benefit to the employer beyond improvement in employee health and morale; (C) Participation was during employee's work hours and was part of the employee's work-related duties; or (D) The
 injury occurred due to an unsafe condition during voluntary 
participation using facilities designated by, furnished by or maintained
 by the employer on or off the employer's premises and the employer had 
actual knowledge of the unsafe condition and failed to curtail the 
activity or program or cure the unsafe condition.(b) If
 the employer defends on the ground that the injury arose in any or all 
of the ways stated in subsection (a), the burden of proof shall be on 
the employer to establish the defense.(c) (1) In
 cases where the employer has implemented a drug-free workplace pursuant
 to chapter 9 of this title, if the injured employee has, at the time of
 the injury, a blood alcohol concentration level equal to or greater 
than eight hundredths of one percent (0.08%) for non-safety sensitive 
positions, or four hundredths of one percent (0.04%) for 
safety-sensitive positions, as determined by blood or breath testing, or
 if the injured employee has a positive confirmation of a drug as 
defined in Â§ 50-9-103, then it is presumed that the drug or alcohol was 
the proximate cause of the injury. This presumption may be rebutted by 
clear and convincing evidence that the drug or alcohol was not the 
proximate cause of injury. Percent by weight of alcohol in the blood 
must be based upon grams of alcohol per one hundred milliliters (100 mL)
 of blood. If the results are positive, the testing facility must 
maintain the specimen for a minimum of three hundred sixty-five (365) 
days at minus twenty degrees celsius (-20 degrees C.). Blood serum may 
be used for testing purposes under this chapter; provided, however, that
 if this test is used, the presumptions under this section do not arise 
unless the blood alcohol level is proved to be medically and 
scientifically equivalent to or greater than the comparable blood 
alcohol level that would have been obtained if the test were based on 
percent by weight of alcohol in the blood. However, if, before the 
accident, the employer had actual knowledge of and acquiesced in the 
employee's presence at the workplace while under the influence of 
alcohol or drugs, the employer retains the burden of proof in asserting 
any defense under subsections (a) and (b), and this subsection (c) does 
not apply. (2) If the injured 
worker refuses to submit to a drug test, it shall be presumed, in the 
absence of clear and convincing evidence to the contrary, that the 
proximate cause of the injury was the influence of drugs, as defined in Â§
 50-9-103. (3) The administrator 
of the division of workers' compensation shall provide, by rule, for the
 authorization and regulation of drug testing policies, procedures and 
methods. Testing of injured employees pursuant to a drug-free workplace 
program under chapter 9 of this title shall not commence until the rules
 are adopted.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 10; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a159; Code 1932, Â§ 6861; 
T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-910; Acts 1994, ch. 765, Â§ 1; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 
49; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2005, ch. 390, Â§ 1; 2009, ch. 407, Â§ 1; 2011, 
ch. 203, Â§ 1, 2; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-110.  Injuries not covered -- Drug and alcohol testing.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 




Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-110. Injuries not covered -- Drug and alcohol testing. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) No compensation shall be allowed for an injury or death due to: (1) The employee's willful misconduct; (2) The employee's intentional self-inflicted injury; (3) The employee's intoxication or illegal drug usage; (4) The employee's willful failure or refusal to use a safety device; (5) The employee's willful failure to perform a duty required by law; or (6) The
 employee's voluntary participation in recreational, social, athletic or
 exercise activities, including, but not limited to, athletic events, 
competitions, parties, picnics, or exercise programs, whether or not the
 employer pays some or all of the costs of the activities unless: (A) Participation was expressly or impliedly required by the employer; (B) Participation produced a direct benefit to the employer beyond improvement in employee health and morale; (C) Participation was during employee's work hours and was part of the employee's work-related duties; or (D) The
 injury occurred due to an unsafe condition during voluntary 
participation using facilities designated by, furnished by or maintained
 by the employer on or off the employer's premises and the employer had 
actual knowledge of the unsafe condition and failed to curtail the 
activity or program or cure the unsafe condition.(b) If
 the employer defends on the ground that the injury arose in any or all 
of the ways stated in subsection (a), the burden of proof shall be on 
the employer to establish the defense.(c) (1) In
 cases where the employer has implemented a drug-free workplace pursuant
 to chapter 9 of this title, if the injured employee has, at the time of
 the injury, a blood alcohol concentration level equal to or greater 
than eight hundredths of one percent (0.08%) for non-safety sensitive 
positions, or four hundredths of one percent (0.04%) for 
safety-sensitive positions, as determined by blood or breath testing, or
 if the injured employee has a positive confirmation of a drug as 
defined in Â§ 50-9-103, then it is presumed that the drug or alcohol was 
the proximate cause of the injury. This presumption may be rebutted by 
clear and convincing evidence that the drug or alcohol was not the 
proximate cause of injury. Percent by weight of alcohol in the blood 
must be based upon grams of alcohol per one hundred milliliters (100 mL)
 of blood. If the results are positive, the testing facility must 
maintain the specimen for a minimum of three hundred sixty-five (365) 
days at minus twenty degrees celsius (-20 degrees C.). Blood serum may 
be used for testing purposes under this chapter; provided, however, that
 if this test is used, the presumptions under this section do not arise 
unless the blood alcohol level is proved to be medically and 
scientifically equivalent to or greater than the comparable blood 
alcohol level that would have been obtained if the test were based on 
percent by weight of alcohol in the blood. However, if, before the 
accident, the employer had actual knowledge of and acquiesced in the 
employee's presence at the workplace while under the influence of 
alcohol or drugs, the employer retains the burden of proof in asserting 
any defense under subsections (a) and (b), and this subsection (c) does 
not apply. (2) If the injured 
worker refuses to submit to a drug test, it shall be presumed, in the 
absence of clear and convincing evidence to the contrary, that the 
proximate cause of the injury was the influence of drugs, as defined in Â§
 50-9-103. (3) The commissioner 
of labor and workforce development shall provide, by rule, for the 
authorization and regulation of drug testing policies, procedures and 
methods. Testing of injured employees pursuant to a drug-free workplace 
program under chapter 9 of this title shall not commence until the rules
 are adopted.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 10; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a159; Code 1932, Â§ 6861; 
T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-910; Acts 1994, ch. 765, Â§ 1; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 
49; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2005, ch. 390, Â§ 1; 2009, ch. 407, Â§ 1; 2011, 
ch. 203, Â§ 1, 2.







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-111.  Defenses not available to employer failing to secure payment of compensation.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-111. Defenses not 
available to employer failing to secure payment of compensation. 
 [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] No
 employer who fails to secure payment of compensation as required by 
this chapter, shall, in any suit brought against the employer by an 
employee covered by this chapter or by the dependent or dependents of 
the employee, to recover damages for personal injury or death arising 
from an accident, be permitted to defend the suit upon any of the 
following grounds: (1) The employee was negligent; (2) The injury was caused by the negligence of a fellow servant or fellow employee; or (3) The employee had assumed the risk of the injury.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 11; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a160; Code 1932, Â§ 6862; 
Acts 1973, ch. 379, Â§ 2; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. 
(orig. ed.), Â§ 50-911.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-112.  Actions against third persons -- Attorney's fees -- Distribution of recovery -- Limitations period.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-112. Actions against third
 persons -- Attorney's fees -- Distribution of recovery -- Limitations 
period. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and 
after July 1, 2014.] (a) When 
the injury or death for which compensation is payable under this chapter
 was caused under circumstances creating a legal liability against some 
person other than the employer to pay damages, the injured worker, or 
the injured worker's dependents, shall have the right to take 
compensation under this chapter, and the injured worker, or those to 
whom the injured worker's right of action survives at law, may pursue 
the injured worker's or their remedy by proper action in a court of 
competent jurisdiction against the other person.(b) In
 the event of a recovery from the other person by the worker, or those 
to whom the worker's right of action survives, by judgment, settlement 
or otherwise, the attorney representing the injured worker, or those to 
whom the injured worker's right of action survives, and effecting the 
recovery, shall be entitled to a reasonable fee for the attorney's 
services, and the attorney shall have a first lien for the fees against 
the recovery; provided, that if the employer has engaged other counsel 
to represent the employer in effecting recovery against the other 
person, then a court of competent jurisdiction shall, upon application, 
apportion the reasonable fee between the attorney for the worker and the
 attorney for the employer, in proportion to the services rendered.(c) (1) In
 the event of a recovery against the third person by the worker, or by 
those to whom the worker's right of action survives, by judgment, 
settlement or otherwise, and the employer's maximum liability for 
workers' compensation under this chapter has been fully or partially 
paid and discharged, the employer shall have a subrogation lien against 
the recovery, and the employer may intervene in any action to protect 
and enforce the lien. (2) In the 
event the net recovery by the worker, or by those to whom the worker's 
right of action survives, exceeds the amount paid by the employer, and 
the employer has not, at the time, paid and discharged the employer's 
full maximum liability for workers' compensation under this chapter, the
 employer shall be entitled to a credit on the employer's future 
liability, as it accrues, to the extent the net recovery collected 
exceeds the amount paid by the employer. (3) In
 the event the worker, or those to whom the worker's right of action 
survives, effects a recovery, and collection of that recovery, from the 
other person, by judgment, settlement or otherwise, without intervention
 by the employer, the employer shall nevertheless be entitled to a 
credit on the employer's future liability for workers' compensation, as 
it accrues under this chapter, to the extent of the net recovery.(d) (1) The
 action against the other person by the injured worker, or those to whom
 the injured worker's right of action survives, must be instituted in 
all cases within one (1) year from the date of injury. (2) Failure
 on the part of the injured worker, or those to whom the injured 
worker's right of action survives, to bring the action within the 
one-year period shall operate as an assignment to the employer of any 
cause of action in tort that the worker, or those to whom the worker's 
right of action survives, may have against any other person for the 
injury or death, and the employer may enforce the cause of action in the
 employer's own name or in the name of the worker, or those to whom the 
worker's right of action survives, for the employer's benefit, as the 
employer's interest may appear, and the employer shall have six (6) 
months after the assignment within which to commence the suit. (3) If
 the cause of action described in subsection (a) arises in a 
jurisdiction other than this state and the other jurisdiction has a 
statute of limitations for personal injury and wrongful death greater 
than the one-year statute of limitations provided in this state, the 
court hearing the cause of action shall apply the statute of limitations
 that provides the injured worker, or those to whom the injured worker's
 right of action survives, the greatest amount of time in which to 
institute an action. (4) Under no circumstances shall the negligent party described in subsection (a) benefit from this subsection (d).HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 14; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a163; Code 1932, Â§ 6865; 
Acts 1949, ch. 277, Â§ 1; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6865; Acts 1963, ch. 333, Â§ 1;
 impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-914; Acts 
1985, ch. 393, Â§ 2.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-113.  Liability of principal contractor, intermediate contractor or subcontractor.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-113. Liability
 of principal contractor, intermediate contractor or subcontractor. 
 [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) A
 principal contractor, intermediate contractor or subcontractor shall be
 liable for compensation to any employee injured while in the employ of 
any of the subcontractors of the principal contractor, intermediate 
contractor or subcontractor and engaged upon the subject matter of the 
contract to the same extent as the immediate employer.(b) Any
 principal contractor, intermediate contractor or subcontractor who pays
 compensation under subsection (a) may recover the amount paid from any 
person who, independently of this section, would have been liable to pay
 compensation to the injured employee, or from any intermediate 
contractor.(c) Every claim for 
compensation under this section shall be in the first instance presented
 to and instituted against the immediate employer, but the proceedings 
shall not constitute a waiver of the employee's rights to recover 
compensation under this chapter from the principal contractor or 
intermediate contractor; provided, that the collection of full 
compensation from one (1) employer shall bar recovery by the employee 
against any others, nor shall the employee collect from all a total 
compensation in excess of the amount for which any of the contractors is
 liable.(d) This section applies 
only in cases where the injury occurred on, in, or about the premises on
 which the principal contractor has undertaken to execute work or that 
are otherwise under the principal contractor's control or management.(e) A
 subcontractor under contract to a general contractor may elect to be 
covered under any policy of workers' compensation insurance insuring the
 contractor upon written agreement of the contractor, by filing written 
notice of the election, on a form prescribed by the administrator, with 
the division. It is the responsibility of the general contractor to file
 the written notice with the division. Failure of the general contractor
 to file the written notice shall not operate to relieve or alter the 
obligation of an insurance company to provide coverage to a 
subcontractor when the subcontractor can produce evidence of payment of 
premiums to the insurance company for the coverage. The election shall 
in no way terminate or affect the independent contractor status of the 
subcontractor for any other purpose than to permit workers' compensation
 coverage. The election of coverage may be terminated by the 
subcontractor or general contractor by providing written notice of the 
termination to the division and to all other parties consenting to the 
prior election. The termination shall be effective thirty (30) days from
 the date of the notice to all other parties consenting to the prior 
election and to the division.(f) This section shall not apply to a construction services provider, as defined by Â§ 50-6-901.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 15; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a164; Code 1932, Â§ 6866; 
T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-915; Acts 1988, ch. 525, Â§ 2; 1992, ch. 793, Â§ 
1; 1997, ch. 330, Â§ 3, 4; 1998, ch. 1024, Â§ 23; 1999, ch. 404, Â§ 2, 3;
 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2008, ch. 1041, Â§ 1-4; 2010 (1st Ex. Sess.), ch. 
1, Â§ 1, 2; 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 1, 5; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-113.  Liability of principal contractor, intermediate contractor or subcontractor.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-113. Liability
 of principal contractor, intermediate contractor or subcontractor. 
 [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) A
 principal contractor, intermediate contractor or subcontractor shall be
 liable for compensation to any employee injured while in the employ of 
any of the subcontractors of the principal contractor, intermediate 
contractor or subcontractor and engaged upon the subject matter of the 
contract to the same extent as the immediate employer.(b) Any
 principal contractor, intermediate contractor or subcontractor who pays
 compensation under subsection (a) may recover the amount paid from any 
person who, independently of this section, would have been liable to pay
 compensation to the injured employee, or from any intermediate 
contractor.(c) Every claim for 
compensation under this section shall be in the first instance presented
 to and instituted against the immediate employer, but the proceedings 
shall not constitute a waiver of the employee's rights to recover 
compensation under this chapter from the principal contractor or 
intermediate contractor; provided, that the collection of full 
compensation from one (1) employer shall bar recovery by the employee 
against any others, nor shall the employee collect from all a total 
compensation in excess of the amount for which any of the contractors is
 liable.(d) This section applies 
only in cases where the injury occurred on, in, or about the premises on
 which the principal contractor has undertaken to execute work or that 
are otherwise under the principal contractor's control or management.(e) A
 subcontractor under contract to a general contractor may elect to be 
covered under any policy of workers' compensation insurance insuring the
 contractor upon written agreement of the contractor, by filing written 
notice of the election, on a form prescribed by the commissioner, with 
the division. It is the responsibility of the general contractor to file
 the written notice with the division. Failure of the general contractor
 to file the written notice shall not operate to relieve or alter the 
obligation of an insurance company to provide coverage to a 
subcontractor when the subcontractor can produce evidence of payment of 
premiums to the insurance company for the coverage. The election shall 
in no way terminate or affect the independent contractor status of the 
subcontractor for any other purpose than to permit workers' compensation
 coverage. The election of coverage may be terminated by the 
subcontractor or general contractor by providing written notice of the 
termination to the division and to all other parties consenting to the 
prior election. The termination shall be effective thirty (30) days from
 the date of the notice to all other parties consenting to the prior 
election and to the division.(f) This section shall not apply to a construction services provider, as defined by Â§ 50-6-901.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 15; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a164; Code 1932, Â§ 6866; 
T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-915; Acts 1988, ch. 525, Â§ 2; 1992, ch. 793, Â§ 
1; 1997, ch. 330, Â§ 3, 4; 1998, ch. 1024, Â§ 23; 1999, ch. 404, Â§ 2, 3;
 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2008, ch. 1041, Â§ 1-4; 2010 (1st Ex. Sess.), ch. 
1, Â§ 1, 2; 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 1, 5.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-114.  Supremacy of chapter -- Setoffs for payments by disability plan.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-114. Supremacy of chapter 
-- Setoffs for payments by disability plan. [Applicable to injuries 
occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) No
 contract or agreement, written or implied, or rule, regulation or other
 device, shall in any manner operate to relieve any employer, in whole 
or in part, of any obligation created by this chapter, except as 
provided in subsection (b).(b) Any 
employer may set off from temporary total, temporary partial, permanent 
partial and permanent total disability benefits any payment made to an 
employee under an employer funded disability plan for the same injury; 
provided, that the disability plan permits such an offset. The offset 
from a disability plan may not result in an employee's receiving less 
than the employee would otherwise receive under this chapter. In the 
event that a collective bargaining agreement is in effect, this 
subsection (b) shall be subject to the agreement of both parties.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 16; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a165; Code 1932, Â§ 6867; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-916; Acts 1996, ch. 919, Â§ 1.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-115.  Extraterritorial application of chapter.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-115. Extraterritorial application of chapter. [Applicable to 
injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) For
 purposes of this section, an employee is considered to be temporarily 
in a state working for an employer if the employee is working for such 
employee's employer in a state other than the state where such employee 
is primarily employed for no more than fourteen (14) consecutive days, 
or no more than twenty-five (25) days total, during a calendar year.(b) (1) If
 an employee in this state who is subject to this chapter temporarily 
leaves this state incidental to the employee's employment and receives 
an accidental injury arising out of and in the course and scope of the 
employee's employment, the employee, or the employee's beneficiaries in 
the case of an injury that results in the employee's death, shall be 
entitled to the benefits of this chapter as if the employee was injured 
in this state. (2) If an 
employee, while working outside the territorial limits of this state 
other than temporarily, suffers an injury on account of which the 
employee, or, in the event of the employee's death, the employee's 
dependents, would have been entitled to the benefits provided by this 
chapter had the injury occurred within this state, the employee, or in 
the event of the employee's death resulting from the injury, the 
employee's dependents, shall be entitled to the benefits provided by 
this chapter; provided, that at the time of the injury: (A) The employment was principally localized within this state; (B) The contract of hire was made in this state; or (C) If
 at the time of the injury the injured worker was a Tennessee resident 
and there existed a substantial connection between this state and the 
particular employer and employee relationship.(c) (1) An
 employee from another state and the employee's employer are exempt from
 this chapter while the employee is temporarily in this state performing
 work for the employer if: (A) The
 employer has furnished workers' compensation insurance coverage under 
the workers' compensation insurance or similar laws of the other state 
to cover the employee's employment while in this state; (B) The extraterritorial provisions of this chapter are recognized in the other state; and (C) Employees
 and employers who are covered in this state are likewise exempted from 
the application of the workers' compensation insurance or similar laws 
of the other state. (2) The 
benefits under the workers' compensation insurance or similar laws of 
the other state, or other remedies under similar law, are the exclusive 
remedy against the employer for any injury, whether resulting in death 
or not, received by the employee while temporarily working for that 
employer in this state. (3) A 
certificate from the duly authorized officer of the appropriate 
department of another state certifying that the employer of such other 
state is insured in that state and has provided extraterritorial 
coverage insuring employees while working in this state is prima facie 
evidence that the employer carries such workers' compensation insurance. (4) Whenever
 in any appeal or other litigation the construction of the laws of 
another jurisdiction is required, the courts shall take judicial notice 
of such construction of the laws of the other jurisdiction. (5) When
 an employee has a claim under the workers' compensation insurance laws 
of another state, territory, province, or foreign nation for the same 
injury or occupational disease as the claim filed in this state, the 
total amount of compensation paid or awarded under such other workers' 
compensation law shall be credited against the compensation due under 
this chapter.(d) (1) Any 
employer who is insured in this state for workers' compensation under 
this chapter, and who has extraterritorial coverage under this chapter, 
for their employees while such employees are temporarily working outside
 this state within the meaning of subsection (a) may obtain a 
certificate evidencing such coverage at the time that the application 
for certification is made from the commissioner of commerce and 
insurance. (2) In order to obtain a certificate under subdivision (d)(1), an employer shall: (A) File
 an application with the commissioner of commerce and insurance, on a 
form that is approved by the commissioner of commerce and insurance; (B) Pay
 a filing fee to the department of commerce and insurance in the amount 
of one hundred dollars ($100). The commissioner of commerce and 
insurance may change the amount of the filing fee required by this 
subdivision (d)(2)(B) by promulgating a rule pursuant to the Uniform 
Administrative Procedures Act, compiled in title 4, chapter 5, as 
necessary to ensure that the proceeds of such filing fees are sufficient
 to offset the cost of processing applications and issuing the 
certificates authorized by this subsection (d); and (C) Submit
 to the commissioner of commerce and insurance a copy of the declaration
 page from the employer's workers' compensation insurance policy, or 
such proof as the commissioner of commerce and insurance may require to 
demonstrate that the employer is self insured for workers' compensation 
and the territorial limits of such coverage. (3) The
 commissioner of commerce and insurance is authorized to issue a 
certificate that certifies that, at the time that the application for 
certification is made, the applicant employer in this state is insured 
for workers' compensation under this chapter, and that such employers 
have extraterritorial coverage under this chapter, for their employees 
while such employees are temporarily working outside this state within 
the meaning of subsection (a).HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 19; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a168; Code 1932, Â§ 6870; 
Acts 1975, ch. 85, Â§ 1; 1976, ch. 389, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 
50-917; Acts 2004, ch. 648, Â§ 1; 2013, ch. 367, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-116.  Construction of chapter.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-116. Construction of chapter. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] For
 any claim for workers' compensation benefits for an injury, as defined 
in this chapter, when the date of injury is on or after July 1, 2014, 
this chapter shall not be remedially or liberally construed but shall be
 construed fairly, impartially, and in accordance with basic principles 
of statutory construction and this chapter shall not be construed in a 
manner favoring either the employee or the employer.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 47; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a197; Code 1932, Â§ 6901; 
impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.) Â§ 50-918; Acts 
2013, ch. 289, Â§ 15.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-116.  Construction of chapter.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-116. Construction of chapter. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] The
 rule of common law requiring strict construction of statutes in 
derogation of common law shall not be applicable to this chapter, but 
this chapter is declared to be a remedial statute, which shall be given 
an equitable construction by the courts, to the end that the objects and
 purposes of this chapter may be realized and attained.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 47; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a197; Code 1932, Â§ 6901; 
impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.) Â§ 50-918.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-117.  Suits by corporation officer against employer.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-117. Suits by corporation officer against employer. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] Every
 employee who is a corporate officer and who elects not to operate under
 this chapter, in any action to recover damages for personal injury or 
death by accident brought against an employer who has elected to operate
 under this chapter, shall proceed as at common law, and the employer in
 the suit may make use of all common law defenses. This section shall 
not apply to any officer of a corporation, member of a limited liability
 company, partner, or sole proprietor who is engaged in the construction
 industry, as defined by Â§ 50-6-901; instead, part 9 of this chapter 
shall apply to such officer, member, partner or sole proprietor.HISTORY: Acts 1975, ch. 198, Â§ 3; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-919; Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 6.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-118.  Penalties.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-118. Penalties. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) The
 division of workers' compensation shall, by rule promulgated pursuant 
to the Uniform Administrative Procedures Act, compiled in title 4, 
chapter 5, establish and collect penalties for the following: (1) Failure of a covered employer to provide workers' compensation coverage or qualify as a self-insurer; (2) Late filing of accident reports; (3) Bad faith denial of claims; (4) Late filing of notice of denial of claim; (5) [Deleted by 2013 amendment, effective July 1, 2014.] (6) [Deleted by 2013 amendment, effective July 1, 2014.] (7) [Deleted by 2013 amendment, effective July 1, 2014.] (8) Failure of any party to appear or to mediate in good faith at any alternative dispute resolution proceeding; (9) Failure
 of any party to comply, within the designated timeframe, with any order
 or judgment issued by a workers' compensation judge; (10) Performance
 of any enumerated action provided in Â§ 29-9-102 in relation to any 
proceedings in the court of workers' compensation claims; (11) Failure
 of any employer to timely provide medical treatment made reasonably 
necessary by the accident and recommended by the authorized treating 
physician or operating physician; (12) Failure of an employer to timely provide a panel of physicians that meets the statutory requirements of this chapter; (13) Wrongful failure of an employer to pay an employee's claim for temporary total disability payments; (14) Wrongful failure to satisfy the terms of an approved settlement; and (15) Refusal to cooperate with the services provided by an ombudsman;(b) All
 penalties collected by the division from an employer for failure to 
provide workers' compensation coverage or failure to qualify as a 
self-insurer shall be paid into and become a part of the uninsured 
employers fund. All other penalties collected pursuant to an assessment 
made under this section shall be paid to the division for use by the 
division, at the discretion of the administrator, to offset the cost of 
administering this chapter.(c) The 
division of workers' compensation may assess the penalties authorized by
 this chapter, upon providing notice and an opportunity for a hearing to
 an employer, an employee, an insurer, or a self-insured pool or trust. 
If a hearing is requested, the commissioner, commissioner's designee, or
 an agency member appointed by the commissioner shall have the authority
 to hear the matter as a contested case, and the authority to hear the 
administrative appeal of an agency decision, relating to the assessment 
of the penalties authorized by this chapter. When a hearing or review of
 an agency decision is requested, the requesting party shall have the 
burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the 
penalized party was either not subject to this chapter, or that the 
penalties assessed pursuant to this chapter should not have been 
assessed. Any party assessed a penalty pursuant to this section shall 
have the right to appeal the penalty assessed by the division and 
affirmed by the commissioner, the commissioner's designee or an agency 
member in the manner provided in this subsection (c), pursuant to the 
Uniform Administrative Procedures Act.(d) If
 an employee receives a settlement, judgment or decree under this 
chapter that includes the payment of medical expenses and the employer 
or workers' compensation carrier wrongfully fails to reimburse an 
employee for any medical expenses actually paid by the employee within 
sixty (60) days of the settlement, judgment or decree, or fails to 
provide reasonable and necessary medical expenses and treatment, 
including failure to reimburse for reasonable and necessary medical 
expenses, in bad faith after receiving reasonable notice of their 
obligation to provide the medical treatment, the employer or[Middle dot]
 workers' compensation carrier shall be liable, in the discretion of the
 court, to pay the employee, in addition to the amount due for medical 
expenses paid, a sum not exceeding twenty-five percent (25%) of the 
expenses; provided, that it is made to appear to the court that the 
refusal to pay the claim was not in good faith and that the failure to 
pay inflicted additional expense, loss or injury upon the employee.HISTORY: Acts 1985, ch. 393, Â§ 18; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2000, ch. 972, Â§ 3; 
2001, ch. 192, Â§ 8; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 8; 2005, ch. 390, Â§ 2; 2013, ch. 
289, Â§ 17, 18; 2014, ch. 903, Â§ 3.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-118.  Penalties.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-118. Penalties. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) The
 division of workers' compensation shall, by rule promulgated pursuant 
to the Uniform Administrative Procedures Act, compiled in title 4, 
chapter 5, establish and collect penalties for the following: (1) Failure of a covered employer to provide workers' compensation coverage or qualify as a self-insurer; (2) Late filing of accident reports; (3) Bad faith denial of claims; (4) Late filing of notice of denial of claim; (5) Late filing of notice of change in benefit payments; (6) Late filing with the department of notice of filing of lawsuits by employees or employee representatives; and (7) Late filing of judgments by insurance companies or by employers, if self-insured.(b) All
 penalties collected by the department from an employer for failure to 
provide workers' compensation coverage or failure to qualify as a 
self-insurer shall be paid into and become a part of the uninsured 
employers fund. All other penalties collected by the department shall be
 paid into and become a part of the second injury fund.(c) The
 commissioner, commissioner's designee, or an agency member appointed by
 the commissioner, may assess the penalties authorized by this chapter, 
upon providing notice and an opportunity for a hearing to an employer, 
an employee, an insurer, or a self-insured pool or trust. If a hearing 
is requested, the commissioner, commissioner's designee, or an agency 
member appointed by the commissioner shall have the authority to hear 
the matter as a contested case, and the authority to hear the 
administrative appeal of an agency decision, relating to the assessment 
of the penalties authorized by this chapter. When a hearing or review of
 an agency decision is requested, the requesting party shall have the 
burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the 
penalized party was either not subject to this chapter, or that the 
penalties assessed pursuant to this chapter should not have been 
assessed.HISTORY: Acts 1985, ch. 393, Â§ 18; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2000, ch. 972, Â§ 3; 2001, ch. 192, Â§ 8; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 8; 2005, ch. 390, Â§ 2.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-119.  Information awareness program.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-119. Information awareness program. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) In
 order to provide greater awareness among employers and employees of the
 rights and obligations of the workers' compensation laws, the division 
of workers' compensation shall institute an information awareness 
program. The program shall: (1) Involve a statewide effort to consult with employers on the actions required; (2) Provide
 that employers with frequent incidents of injuries be targeted for 
referral to appropriate agencies on accident prevention; (3) Provide
 education and information aimed at preventing disputes and delays in 
the processing of claims, through the use of speakers' seminars and 
conferences; (4) Provide a system to communicate developments in the law to interested groups; (5) Provide
 injured employees with complete information on their rights to 
compensation and day-to-day assistance with problems on their claims; (6) Develop general informational literature and audio-visual aids for both employees and employers; and (7) Provide a toll-free number for employers and employees to receive information from and ask questions of the department.(b) Any
 publications for distribution under this section must be published in 
accordance with the rules, regulations, policies and procedures of the 
state publications committee.HISTORY: Acts 1985, ch. 393, Â§ 19; 1990, ch. 1024, Â§ 29; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-120.  Liability of construction design professionals.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-120. Liability of construction design professionals. 
 [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 
1, 2014.] (a) No construction 
design professional, or any employee of the construction design 
professional, who is retained to perform professional services on a 
construction project, shall be liable for the personal injury or death 
of any nonemployee of the construction design professional, working on 
the construction project, unless the construction design professional or
 any employee of the construction design professional is guilty of 
negligence that is a proximate cause of the injury or death of the 
nonemployee.(b) Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the rights or responsibilities of any person under this chapter.(c) Rule 11 of the Tennessee Rules of Civil Procedure shall apply in all actions against construction design professionals.HISTORY: Acts 1988, ch. 923, Â§ 2-4.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions---> 50-6-121.  Advisory council on workers' compensation.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-121. Advisory council on workers' compensation. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]  (a) (1) (A) There
 is created an advisory council on workers' compensation. There shall be
 seven (7) voting members of the council, with three (3) representing 
employers, three (3) representing employees, and one (1) member who 
shall serve as the chair and who shall be the state treasurer or the 
state treasurer's designee. There shall be ten (10) nonvoting members of
 the council. All members shall have a demonstrable working knowledge of
 the workers' compensation system. (B) The
 chair shall preside at meetings of the council and, in consultation 
with the voting members of the council, shall supervise the work of the 
staff of the council. The council shall meet at the call of the chair or
 at the written call of four (4) voting members of the council which 
written call shall be delivered to the chair. The chair may vote only on
 matters related to the administration of the council or the council's 
research. The chair is not permitted to vote on any matter that 
constitutes the making of a policy recommendation to the governor or to 
the general assembly. (C) The 
speaker of the house of representatives, the speaker of the senate and 
the governor shall each appoint one (1) employer and one (1) employee 
representative to the council, who shall be voting members. 
Representatives, officers and employees from labor organizations or 
business trade organizations are eligible for appointment. In making the
 appointments of the employer representatives, the appointing 
authorities shall strive to ensure a balance of a commercially insured 
employer, self-insured employer or an employer who operates a small 
business. At least one (1) employee representative shall be from 
organized labor. Proxy voting is prohibited by voting members of the 
council; provided, however, that in instances where a voting member will
 be absent from a vote of the council, the member's appointing authority
 is authorized to appoint an alternate or designee for the vote or 
votes. (D) Voting members 
shall serve four-year terms and the terms shall be staggered so that the
 terms of only three (3) voting members shall terminate at the same 
time. All four-year terms shall begin on July 1 and terminate on June 
30, four (4) years thereafter. (E) (i) The
 governor shall also appoint ten (10) nonvoting members of the council 
as follows: one (1) to represent local governments, one (1) to represent
 insurance companies, five (5) to represent health care providers and 
three (3) attorneys. The nonvoting local government representative may 
be appointed from lists of qualified persons submitted by interested 
municipal and county organizations including, but not limited to, the 
Tennessee Municipal League and the Tennessee County Services 
Association. The nonvoting insurance company representative may be 
appointed from lists of qualified persons submitted by interested 
insurance organizations including, but not limited to, the Alliance of 
American Insurers and the American Insurance Association. One (1) 
nonvoting healthcare provider representative may be appointed from lists
 of qualified persons submitted by interested medical organizations 
including, but not limited to, the Tennessee Medical Association and one
 (1) nonvoting healthcare provider representative may be appointed from 
lists of qualified persons submitted by interested hospital 
organizations including, but not limited to, the Tennessee Hospital 
Association. One (1) nonvoting health care provider representative shall
 be a chiropractor who is licensed in this state, one (1) nonvoting 
health care provider representative shall be a physical therapist who is
 licensed in this state, and one (1) nonvoting health care provider 
representative shall be an occupational therapist who is licensed in 
this state, and these members shall not receive reimbursement for travel
 expenses. The nonvoting attorney members shall be appointed as follows:
 one (1) who shall primarily represent injured workers' compensation 
claimants, who may be appointed from lists of qualified persons 
submitted by interested justice organizations including, but not limited
 to, the Tennessee Association for Justice; one (1) who shall primarily 
represent employers or workers' compensation insurers, who may be 
appointed from lists of qualified persons submitted by interested 
defense lawyer organizations including, but not limited to, the 
Tennessee Defense Lawyers Association; and one (1) who may be appointed 
from lists of qualified persons submitted by interested legal 
organizations including, but not limited to the Tennessee Bar 
Association. (ii) The 
appointing authorities shall consult with interested groups including, 
but not limited to, the organizations listed in subdivision (a)(E)(i) to
 determine qualified persons to fill positions on the council. (F) The
 nonvoting members shall be appointed to four-year terms that shall 
begin on July 1 and terminate on June 30, four (4) years thereafter. (G) The
 chair of the commerce and labor committee of the senate, the chair of 
the consumer and human resources committee of the house of 
representatives, the administrator of the division of workers' 
compensation and the commissioner of commerce and insurance, or their 
designees, shall be ex officio, nonvoting members of the council. (2) Each
 voting and nonvoting member of the advisory council on workers' 
compensation shall, upon the expiration of the member's term, be 
eligible for reappointment and shall serve until a successor is 
appointed. In the event a member resigns or becomes ineligible for 
service during the member's term, a successor shall be appointed by the 
appropriate appointing authority to serve the remainder of the term. (3) No
 employer shall discriminate in any manner against an employee who 
serves on the advisory council because of the employee's service. 
Employees who serve on the advisory council shall not be denied any 
benefit from their employer because of the employee's service. Travel 
expenses of the employee representatives on the council shall be 
reimbursed pursuant to subsection (b); however, employers may choose to 
pay the travel expenses of their employees' service on the advisory 
council according to their own policies.(b) (1) Notwithstanding
 Â§ 3-6-304 or any other law to the contrary, and in addition to all 
other requirements for membership on the council: (A) Any
 person registered as a lobbyist pursuant to the registration 
requirements of title 3, chapter 6 who is subsequently appointed or 
otherwise named as a member of the council shall terminate all 
employment and business association as a lobbyist with any entity whose 
business endeavors or professional activities are regulated by the 
council, prior to serving as a member of the council. This subdivision 
(b)(1)(A) shall apply to all persons appointed or otherwise named to the
 council after July 1, 2010; (B) No
 person who is a member of the council shall be permitted to register or
 otherwise serve as a lobbyist pursuant to title 3, chapter 6 for any 
entity whose business endeavors or professional activities are regulated
 by the council during such person's period of service as a member of 
the council. This subdivision (b)(1)(B) shall apply to all persons 
appointed or otherwise named to the council after July 1, 2010, and to 
all persons serving on the council on such date who are not registered 
as lobbyists; and (C) No 
person who serves as a member of the council shall be employed as a 
lobbyist by any entity whose business endeavors or professional 
activities are regulated by the council for one (1) year following the 
date such person's service on the council ends. This subdivision 
(b)(1)(C) shall apply to persons serving on the council as of July 1, 
2010, and to persons appointed to the council subsequent to such date. (2) A person who violates this subsection (b) shall be subject to the penalties prescribed in title 3, chapter 6. (3) The
 bureau of ethics and campaign finance is authorized to promulgate rules
 and regulations to effectuate the purposes of this subsection (b). All 
such rules and regulations shall be promulgated in accordance with the 
Uniform Administrative Procedures Act, compiled in title 4, chapter 5, 
and in accordance with the procedure for initiating and proposing rules 
by the ethics commission to the bureau of ethics and campaign finance as
 prescribed in Â§ 4-55-103.(c) In 
addition to all other requirements for membership on the council, all 
persons appointed or otherwise named to serve as members of the council 
after July 1, 2010, shall be residents of this state.(d) Members
 of the council shall not be paid but may be reimbursed for travel 
expenses. All reimbursement for travel expenses shall be in accordance 
with the comprehensive travel regulations promulgated by the department 
of finance and administration and approved by the attorney general and 
reporter.(e) The council shall meet
 at least twice each year. It shall annually review workers' 
compensation in the state and shall issue a report of its findings and 
conclusions on or before July 1 of each year. The annual report shall be
 sent to the governor, the speakers of the house of representatives and 
the senate, the chair and vice-chair of the special joint committee on 
workers' compensation, the administrator of the division of workers' 
compensation, the commissioner of commerce and insurance and the clerks 
of the house of representatives and senate. Notice of the publication of
 the annual report and all other reports published by the council shall 
be provided to all members of the general assembly pursuant to Â§ 
3-1-114.(f) In performing its responsibilities, the council's role shall be strictly advisory, but it may: (1) Make
 recommendations to the governor, the general assembly, the special 
joint committee on workers' compensation, the standing committees of 
each house that review the status of the workers' compensation system, 
the administrator of the division of workers' compensation and the 
commissioner of commerce and insurance relating to the promulgation or 
adoption of legislation or rules; (2) Make
 recommendations to the administrator of the division of workers' 
compensation and the commissioner of commerce and insurance regarding 
the method and form of statistical data collections; and (3) Monitor the performance of the workers' compensation system in the implementation of legislative directives.(g) The
 chair, in consultation with the voting members of the council, is 
authorized to retain staff and professional assistance, such as 
consultants and actuaries, as the chair deems necessary for the work of 
the council, subject to budgetary approval in the general appropriations
 act. For administrative purposes, the council shall be attached to the 
department of treasury for all administrative matters relating to 
receipts, disbursements, expense accounts, budget, audit and other 
related items. The state treasurer shall have administrative and 
supervisory control over the staff assigned to assist the council. 
Employees of the council shall not have the status of preferred service 
employees pursuant to title 8. The autonomy of the council and its 
authority are not affected by this subsection (g).(h) The
 council may develop evaluations, statistical reports and other 
information from which the general assembly may evaluate the impact of 
the legislative changes to workers' compensation law, including, but not
 limited to, the Reform Act of 2004 and subsequent statutory changes to 
this chapter.(i) The advisory 
council shall issue an annual report that includes a summary of 
significant supreme court decisions relating to workers' compensation, 
including an explanation of their impact on existing policy. The report 
shall be due on or before January 15 of each year and shall include, to 
the extent possible, the decisions that were issued during the preceding
 calendar year. This annual report shall be sent to the governor, the 
speaker of the house of representatives, the speaker of the senate, the 
chair of the consumer and human resources committee of the house of 
representatives, the chair of the commerce and labor committee of the 
senate, and the chair and co-chair of the special joint committee on 
workers' compensation. Notice of the publication of the report shall be 
provided to all members of the general assembly pursuant to Â§ 3-1-114.(j) The
 advisory council on workers' compensation shall, within ten (10) 
business days of each meeting it conducts, provide a summary of the 
meeting and a report of all actions taken and all actions recommended to
 be taken to each member of the consumer and human resources committee 
of the house of representatives and the commerce and labor committee of 
the senate.(k) Whenever any bill is
 introduced in the general assembly proposing to amend this chapter or 
to make any change in workers' compensation law, or to make any change 
in the law that may have a financial or other substantive impact on the 
administration of workers' compensation law, the standing committee to 
which the bill is referred may refer the bill to the council. The 
council's review of bills relating to workers' compensation should 
include, but not be limited to, bills that propose to amend chapters 3, 
6, 7, and 9 of this title, and title 56, chapters 5 and 47. All bills 
referred to the council shall be reported back to the standing committee
 to which they were assigned as quickly as reasonably possible. 
Notwithstanding the absence of a report from the council, the standing 
committee is free to consider the bill at any time. The chair making the
 referral shall immediately notify the prime sponsors of the referral 
and the council shall not review and comment on the proposed legislation
 until the prime sponsors have been notified. The comments of the 
council shall describe the potential effects of the proposed legislation
 on the workers' compensation system and its operations and any other 
information or suggestions that the council may think helpful to the 
sponsors, the standing committees or the general assembly. The comments 
of the council may include recommendations for or against passage of the
 proposed legislation. Other than reporting the recommendations for or 
against passage of proposed legislation and responding to any questions 
that the legislators may have, no staff of the advisory council shall 
lobby or advocate for or against passage of proposed legislation.(l) The
 council shall study and report on the occupational health and safety of
 employment in Tennessee and make recommendations for safe employment 
education and training and promote the development of employer-sponsored
 health and safety programs.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 4; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 4-7; 1997, ch. 235, Â§ 1, 2;
 1997, ch. 533, Â§ 49; 1998, ch. 1024, Â§ 13, 20; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 
2000, ch. 852, Â§ 3; 2001, ch. 192, Â§ 11, 12; 2002, ch. 695, Â§ 1, 2, 6;
 2003, ch. 359, Â§ 1; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 26, 27, 30, 43, 45; 2005, ch. 
390, Â§ 3; 2006, ch. 645, Â§ 1-3; 2008, ch. 1183, Â§ 9, 11; 2009, ch. 
463, Â§ 1-3; 2010, ch. 1087, Â§ 3; 2011, ch. 410, Â§ 10(a); 2012, ch. 622,
 Â§ 3; 2012, ch. 800, Â§ 49; 2013, ch. 236, Â§ 29; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1; 
2013, ch. 289, Â§ 19.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions---> 50-6-121.  Advisory council on workers' compensation.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-121. Advisory council on workers' compensation. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) (A) There
 is created an advisory council on workers' compensation. There shall be
 seven (7) voting members of the council, with three (3) representing 
employers, three (3) representing employees, and one (1) member who 
shall serve as the chair and who shall be the state treasurer or the 
state treasurer's designee. There shall be ten (10) nonvoting members of
 the council. All members shall have a demonstrable working knowledge of
 the workers' compensation system. (B) The
 chair shall preside at meetings of the council and, in consultation 
with the voting members of the council, shall supervise the work of the 
staff of the council. The council shall meet at the call of the chair or
 at the written call of four (4) voting members of the council which 
written call shall be delivered to the chair. The chair may vote only on
 matters related to the administration of the council or the council's 
research. The chair is not permitted to vote on any matter that 
constitutes the making of a policy recommendation to the governor or to 
the general assembly. (C) The 
speaker of the house of representatives, the speaker of the senate and 
the governor shall each appoint one (1) employer and one (1) employee 
representative to the council, who shall be voting members. 
Representatives, officers and employees from labor organizations or 
business trade organizations are eligible for appointment. In making the
 appointments of the employer representatives, the appointing 
authorities shall strive to ensure a balance of a commercially insured 
employer, self-insured employer or an employer who operates a small 
business. At least one (1) employee representative shall be from 
organized labor. Proxy voting is prohibited by voting members of the 
council; provided, however, that in instances where a voting member will
 be absent from a vote of the council, the member's appointing authority
 is authorized to appoint an alternate or designee for the vote or 
votes. (D) Voting members 
shall serve four-year terms and the terms shall be staggered so that the
 terms of only three (3) voting members shall terminate at the same 
time. The terms of the voting members who are serving as of June 30, 
2003, shall be amended as follows: those members whose terms are 
scheduled to expire in 2004 shall expire on June 30, 2004, and the 
successors shall serve a four-year term to begin on July 1, 2004, and to
 end on June 30, 2008, and those members whose terms are scheduled to 
expire in 2006 shall expire on June 30, 2006, and the successors shall 
serve a four-year term to begin on July 1, 2006, and to expire on June 
30, 2010. Thereafter, all four-year terms shall begin on July 1 and 
terminate on June 30, four (4) years thereafter. (E) (i) The
 governor shall also appoint ten (10) nonvoting members of the council 
as follows: one (1) to represent local governments, one (1) to represent
 insurance companies, five (5) to represent health care providers and 
three (3) attorneys. The nonvoting local government representative may 
be appointed from lists of qualified persons submitted by interested 
municipal and county organizations including, but not limited to, the 
Tennessee Municipal League and the Tennessee County Services 
Association. The nonvoting insurance company representative may be 
appointed from lists of qualified persons submitted by interested 
insurance organizations including, but not limited to, the Alliance of 
American Insurers and the American Insurance Association. One (1) 
nonvoting healthcare provider representative may be appointed from lists
 of qualified persons submitted by interested medical organizations 
including, but not limited to, the Tennessee Medical Association and one
 (1) nonvoting healthcare provider representative may be appointed from 
lists of qualified persons submitted by interested hospital 
organizations including, but not limited to, the Tennessee Hospital 
Association. One (1) nonvoting health care provider representative shall
 be a chiropractor who is licensed in this state, one (1) nonvoting 
health care provider representative shall be a physical therapist who is
 licensed in this state, and one (1) nonvoting health care provider 
representative shall be an occupational therapist who is licensed in 
this state, and these members shall not receive reimbursement for travel
 expenses. The nonvoting attorney members shall be appointed as follows:
 one (1) who shall primarily represent injured workers' compensation 
claimants, who may be appointed from lists of qualified persons 
submitted by interested justice organizations including, but not limited
 to, the Tennessee Association for Justice; one (1) who shall primarily 
represent employers or workers' compensation insurers, who may be 
appointed from lists of qualified persons submitted by interested 
defense lawyer organizations including, but not limited to, the 
Tennessee Defense Lawyers Association; and one (1) who may be appointed 
from lists of qualified persons submitted by interested legal 
organizations including, but not limited to the Tennessee Bar 
Association. (ii) The 
appointing authorities shall consult with interested groups including, 
but not limited to, the organizations listed in subdivision (a)(E)(i) to
 determine qualified persons to fill positions on the council. (F) The
 nonvoting members shall be appointed to four-year terms that shall 
begin on July 1 and terminate on June 30, four (4) years thereafter. (G) The
 chair of the commerce and labor committee of the senate, the chair of 
the consumer and human resources committee of the house of 
representatives, the commissioner of labor and workforce development and
 the commissioner of commerce and insurance, or their designees, shall 
be ex officio, nonvoting members of the council. (2) Each
 voting and nonvoting member of the advisory council on workers' 
compensation shall, upon the expiration of the member's term, be 
eligible for reappointment and shall serve until a successor is 
appointed. In the event a member resigns or becomes ineligible for 
service during the member's term, a successor shall be appointed by the 
appropriate appointing authority to serve the remainder of the term. (3) No
 employer shall discriminate in any manner against an employee who 
serves on the advisory council because of the employee's service. 
Employees who serve on the advisory council shall not be denied any 
benefit from their employer because of the employee's service. Travel 
expenses of the employee representatives on the council shall be 
reimbursed pursuant to subsection (b); however, employers may choose to 
pay the travel expenses of their employees' service on the advisory 
council according to their own policies.(b) (1) Notwithstanding
 Â§ 3-6-304 or any other law to the contrary, and in addition to all 
other requirements for membership on the council: (A) Any
 person registered as a lobbyist pursuant to the registration 
requirements of title 3, chapter 6 who is subsequently appointed or 
otherwise named as a member of the council shall terminate all 
employment and business association as a lobbyist with any entity whose 
business endeavors or professional activities are regulated by the 
council, prior to serving as a member of the council. This subdivision 
(b)(1)(A) shall apply to all persons appointed or otherwise named to the
 council after July 1, 2010; (B) No
 person who is a member of the council shall be permitted to register or
 otherwise serve as a lobbyist pursuant to title 3, chapter 6 for any 
entity whose business endeavors or professional activities are regulated
 by the council during such person's period of service as a member of 
the council. This subdivision (b)(1)(B) shall apply to all persons 
appointed or otherwise named to the council after July 1, 2010, and to 
all persons serving on the council on such date who are not registered 
as lobbyists; and (C) No 
person who serves as a member of the council shall be employed as a 
lobbyist by any entity whose business endeavors or professional 
activities are regulated by the council for one (1) year following the 
date such person's service on the council ends. This subdivision 
(b)(1)(C) shall apply to persons serving on the council as of July 1, 
2010, and to persons appointed to the council subsequent to such date. (2) A person who violates this subsection (b) shall be subject to the penalties prescribed in title 3, chapter 6. (3) The
 bureau of ethics and campaign finance is authorized to promulgate rules
 and regulations to effectuate the purposes of this subsection (b). All 
such rules and regulations shall be promulgated in accordance with the 
Uniform Administrative Procedures Act, compiled in title 4, chapter 5, 
and in accordance with the procedure for initiating and proposing rules 
by the ethics commission to the bureau of ethics and campaign finance as
 prescribed in Â§ 4-55-103.(c) In 
addition to all other requirements for membership on the council, all 
persons appointed or otherwise named to serve as members of the council 
after July 1, 2010, shall be residents of this state.(d) Members
 of the council shall not be paid but may be reimbursed for travel 
expenses. All reimbursement for travel expenses shall be in accordance 
with the comprehensive travel regulations promulgated by the department 
of finance and administration and approved by the attorney general and 
reporter.(e) The council shall meet
 at least twice each year. It shall annually review workers' 
compensation in the state and shall issue a report of its findings and 
conclusions on or before July 1 of each year. The annual report shall be
 sent to the governor, the speakers of the house of representatives and 
the senate, the chair and vice-chair of the special joint committee on 
workers' compensation, the commissioner of labor and workforce 
development, the commissioner of commerce and insurance and the clerks 
of the house of representatives and senate. Notice of the publication of
 the annual report and all other reports published by the council shall 
be provided to all members of the general assembly pursuant to Â§ 
3-1-114.(f) In performing its responsibilities, the council's role shall be strictly advisory, but it may: (1) Make
 recommendations to the governor, the general assembly, the special 
joint committee on workers' compensation, the standing committees of 
each house that review the status of the workers' compensation system, 
the commissioner of labor and workforce development and the commissioner
 of commerce and insurance relating to the promulgation or adoption of 
legislation or rules; (2) Make 
recommendations to the commissioner of labor and workforce development 
and the commissioner of commerce and insurance regarding the method and 
form of statistical data collections; and (3) Monitor the performance of the workers' compensation system in the implementation of legislative directives.(g) The
 chair, in consultation with the voting members of the council, is 
authorized to retain staff and professional assistance, such as 
consultants and actuaries, as the chair deems necessary for the work of 
the council, subject to budgetary approval in the general appropriations
 act. For administrative purposes, the council shall be attached to the 
department of treasury for all administrative matters relating to 
receipts, disbursements, expense accounts, budget, audit and other 
related items. The state treasurer shall have administrative and 
supervisory control over the staff assigned to assist the council. 
Employees of the council shall not have the status of preferred service 
employees pursuant to title 8. The autonomy of the council and its 
authority are not affected by this subsection (g).(h) The
 council may develop evaluations, statistical reports and other 
information from which the general assembly may evaluate the impact of 
the legislative changes to workers' compensation law, including, but not
 limited to, the Reform Act of 2004 and subsequent statutory changes to 
this chapter.(i) The advisory 
council shall issue an annual report that includes a summary of 
significant supreme court decisions relating to workers' compensation, 
including an explanation of their impact on existing policy. The report 
shall be due on or before January 15 of each year and shall include, to 
the extent possible, the decisions that were issued during the preceding
 calendar year. This annual report shall be sent to the governor, the 
speaker of the house of representatives, the speaker of the senate, the 
chair of the consumer and human resources committee of the house of 
representatives, the chair of the commerce and labor committee of the 
senate, and the chair and co-chair of the special joint committee on 
workers' compensation. Notice of the publication of the report shall be 
provided to all members of the general assembly pursuant to Â§ 3-1-114.(j) The
 advisory council on workers' compensation shall, within ten (10) 
business days of each meeting it conducts, provide a summary of the 
meeting and a report of all actions taken and all actions recommended to
 be taken to each member of the consumer and human resources committee 
of the house of representatives and the commerce and labor committee of 
the senate.(k) Whenever any bill is
 introduced in the general assembly proposing to amend this chapter or 
to make any change in workers' compensation law, or to make any change 
in the law that may have a financial or other substantive impact on the 
administration of workers' compensation law, the standing committee to 
which the bill is referred may refer the bill to the council. The 
council's review of bills relating to workers' compensation should 
include, but not be limited to, bills that propose to amend chapters 3, 
6, 7, and 9 of this title, and title 56, chapters 5 and 47. All bills 
referred to the council shall be reported back to the standing committee
 to which they were assigned as quickly as reasonably possible. 
Notwithstanding the absence of a report from the council, the standing 
committee is free to consider the bill at any time. The chair making the
 referral shall immediately notify the prime sponsors of the referral 
and the council shall not review and comment on the proposed legislation
 until the prime sponsors have been notified. The comments of the 
council shall describe the potential effects of the proposed legislation
 on the workers' compensation system and its operations and any other 
information or suggestions that the council may think helpful to the 
sponsors, the standing committees or the general assembly. The comments 
of the council may include recommendations for or against passage of the
 proposed legislation. Other than reporting the recommendations for or 
against passage of proposed legislation and responding to any questions 
that the legislators may have, no staff of the advisory council shall 
lobby or advocate for or against passage of proposed legislation.(l) The
 council shall study and report on the occupational health and safety of
 employment in Tennessee and make recommendations for safe employment 
education and training and promote the development of employer-sponsored
 health and safety programs.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 4; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 4-7; 1997, ch. 235, Â§ 1, 2;
 1997, ch. 533, Â§ 49; 1998, ch. 1024, Â§ 13, 20; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 
2000, ch. 852, Â§ 3; 2001, ch. 192, Â§ 11, 12; 2002, ch. 695, Â§ 1, 2, 6;
 2003, ch. 359, Â§ 1; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 26, 27, 30, 43, 45; 2005, ch. 
390, Â§ 3; 2006, ch. 645, Â§ 1-3; 2008, ch. 1183, Â§ 9, 11; 2009, ch. 
463, Â§ 1-3; 2010, ch. 1087, Â§ 3; 2011, ch. 410, Â§ 10(a); 2012, ch. 622,
 Â§ 3; 2012, ch. 800, Â§ 49; 2013, ch. 236, Â§ 29.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-122.  Case management and utilization review -- Use of HMOs and PPOs -- Legislative intent -- Claims by health care providers.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] 
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-122. Case
 management and utilization review -- Use of HMOs and PPOs -- 
Legislative intent -- Claims by health care providers. [Applicable to 
injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]  (a) (1) It
 is the intent of the general assembly that quality medical care 
services shall be available to injured and disabled employees. It is 
also the legislative intent to control increasing medical costs in 
workers' compensation matters by establishing cost control mechanisms to
 ensure cost-effective delivery of medical care services by employing a 
program of medical case management and a program to review the 
utilization and quality of medical care services. (2) In
 order to assure that in workers' compensation cases quality medical 
care is rendered and to control medical care costs, an employer is 
authorized to use, but is not required to use, health maintenance 
organizations (HMOs) and preferred provider organizations (PPOs). An HMO
 or PPO may contract with medical care providers as permitted by law. 
The contracts are authorized to use, but are not limited to the use of, 
the following managed care methodologies: (A) Medical bill review; (B) Establishment of medical practice guidelines; (C) Case management, subject to Â§ 50-6-123; (D) Utilization review, subject to Â§ 50-6-124; and (E) Peer review programs. (3) Section
 50-6-204(a)(3), relative to medical care, shall apply to any managed 
care methodology employed pursuant to this section. For the purposes of Â§
 50-6-204(a)(3), physicians and surgeons in the same HMO or PPO are 
considered to be associated in practice together if they share a common 
employer for purposes of their clinical practice, or are associated 
together in a group practice.(b) A 
health care provider shall not pursue a private claim against a workers'
 compensation claimant for all or part of the costs of health care 
services provided to the claimant by the provider unless: (1) The injury is finally adjudicated not to be compensable under this chapter; (2) The
 physician or surgeon, as provided in Â§ 50-6-204, who was not authorized
 by the employer at the time the services were rendered, knew that the 
physician or surgeon was not an authorized physician or surgeon; or (3) The
 employee knew that the physician or surgeon was not an authorized 
physician or surgeon; provided, that subdivision (b)(2) and this 
subdivision (b)(3) do not apply to emergency care.(c) [Deleted by 2013 amendment, effective July 1, 2014.]HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 6; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 8, 10; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 20, 21.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions---> 50-6-122.  Case management and utilization review -- Use of HMOs and PPOs -- Legislative intent -- Claims by health care providers -- Collection agencies -- Reports to credit bureau.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-122. Case
 management and utilization review -- Use of HMOs and PPOs -- 
Legislative intent -- Claims by health care providers -- Collection 
agencies -- Reports to credit bureau. [Applicable to injuries occurring
 prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) It
 is the intent of the general assembly that quality medical care 
services shall be available to injured and disabled employees. It is 
also the legislative intent to control increasing medical costs in 
workers' compensation matters by establishing cost control mechanisms to
 ensure cost-effective delivery of medical care services by employing a 
program of medical case management and a program to review the 
utilization and quality of medical care services. (2) In
 order to assure that in workers' compensation cases quality medical 
care is rendered and to control medical care costs, an employer is 
authorized to use, but is not required to use, health maintenance 
organizations (HMOs) and preferred provider organizations (PPOs). An HMO
 or PPO may contract with medical care providers as permitted by law. 
The contracts are authorized to use, but are not limited to the use of, 
the following managed care methodologies: (A) Medical bill review; (B) Establishment of medical practice guidelines; (C) Case management, subject to Â§ 50-6-123; (D) Utilization review, subject to Â§ 50-6-124; and (E) Peer review programs. (3) Section
 50-6-204(a)(4), relative to medical care, shall apply to any managed 
care methodology employed pursuant to this section. For the purposes of Â§
 50-6-204(a)(4), physicians and surgeons in the same HMO or PPO are 
considered to be associated in practice together if they share a common 
employer for purposes of their clinical practice, or are associated 
together in a group practice.(b) A 
health care provider shall not pursue a private claim against a workers'
 compensation claimant for all or part of the costs of health care 
services provided to the claimant by the provider unless: (1) The injury is finally adjudicated not to be compensable under this chapter; (2) The
 physician or surgeon, as provided in Â§ 50-6-204, who was not authorized
 by the employer at the time the services were rendered, knew that the 
physician or surgeon was not an authorized physician or surgeon; or (3) The
 employee knew that the physician or surgeon was not an authorized 
physician or surgeon; provided, that subdivision (b)(2) and this 
subdivision (b)(3) do not apply to emergency care.(c) A
 health care provider shall not employ a collection agency or make a 
report to a credit bureau concerning a private claim against an employer
 for all or part of the costs of medical care provided to an employee 
that are not paid by the employer's workers' compensation insurer 
without having first exhausted all administrative remedies as provided 
by Â§ 50-6-226(a)(4). The medical director may include the insurer in the
 administrative process.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 6; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 8, 10.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-123.  Case management system for coordinating medical care services.  [Applicable to injuries occurring, and actions committed, on and after July 1, 2014, but prior to January 1, 2017. 
===================================================================



 

First of 3 versions of this section

50-6-123.  Case management system for coordinating medical care services.  [Applicable to injuries occurring, and actions committed, on and after July 1, 2014, but prior to January 1, 2017. See version effective January 1, 2017, and applicable to actions committed on or after January 1, 2017.]

(a) The administrator shall establish, pursuant to the administrator's rule and regulation-making authority, a system of case management for coordinating the medical care services provided to employees claiming benefits under this chapter.

(b) Employers may, at their own expense, utilize case management, and, if utilized, the employee shall cooperate with the case management. Case management shall include, but not be limited to:

(1) Developing a treatment plan to provide appropriate medical care services to an injured or disabled employee;

(2) Systematically monitoring the treatment rendered and the medical progress of the injured or disabled employee;

(3) Assessing whether alternate medical care services are appropriate and delivered in a cost-effective manner based on acceptable medical standards;

(4) Ensuring that the injured or disabled employee is following the prescribed medical care plan; and

(5) Formulating a plan for return to work with due regard for the employee's recovery and restrictions and limitations, if any.

(c) The administrator may contract with an independent organization, not owned by or affiliated with any carrier authorized to write workers' compensation insurance in the state, to assist with the administration of this section.

(d) Nothing in this section shall prevent an employer from establishing its own program of case management that meets the guidelines promulgated by the administrator in rules and regulations.

(e) Medical care, treatment, therapy or services provided at the employee's residence pursuant to this chapter, shall not be considered home health services as defined in Â§ 68-11-201 when provided pursuant to direction of the employee's attending physician in the following specific circumstances only:

(1) By a licensed health care provider who routinely provides services to employees at the place of employment, if the services rendered by the provider at the employee's residence are of the same type rendered by the provider at the place of employment; or

(2) By a licensed physical therapist, occupational therapist or speech therapist practicing independently of a home health agency, when the employee's attending physician determines that it is in the best interest of the employee to be treated by the independent therapist because of the therapist's expertise in workplace injuries.

HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 7; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 9; 2001, ch. 148, Â§ 1; 2004, ch. 962, Â§Â§ 28, 29; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1.





===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-123.  Case management system for coordinating medical care services.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-123. Case
 management system for coordinating medical care services. [Applicable 
to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]  (a) The
 commissioner shall establish, pursuant to the commissioner's rule and 
regulation-making authority, a system of case management for 
coordinating the medical care services provided to employees claiming 
benefits under this chapter.(b) Employers
 may, at their own expense, utilize case management, and, if utilized, 
the employee shall cooperate with the case management. Case management 
shall include, but not be limited to: (1) Developing a treatment plan to provide appropriate medical care services to an injured or disabled employee; (2) Systematically monitoring the treatment rendered and the medical progress of the injured or disabled employee; (3) Assessing
 whether alternate medical care services are appropriate and delivered 
in a cost-effective manner based on acceptable medical standards; (4) Ensuring that the injured or disabled employee is following the prescribed medical care plan; and (5) Formulating a plan for return to work with due regard for the employee's recovery and restrictions and limitations, if any.(c) The
 commissioner may contract with an independent organization, not owned 
by or affiliated with any carrier authorized to write workers' 
compensation insurance in the state, to assist with the administration 
of this section.(d) Nothing in this
 section shall prevent an employer from establishing its own program of 
case management that meets the guidelines promulgated by the 
commissioner in rules and regulations.(e) Medical
 care, treatment, therapy or services provided at the employee's 
residence pursuant to this chapter, shall not be considered home health 
services as defined in Â§ 68-11-201 when provided pursuant to direction 
of the employee's attending physician in the following specific 
circumstances only: (1) By a 
licensed health care provider who routinely provides services to 
employees at the place of employment, if the services rendered by the 
provider at the employee's residence are of the same type rendered by 
the provider at the place of employment; or (2) By
 a licensed physical therapist, occupational therapist or speech 
therapist practicing independently of a home health agency, when the 
employee's attending physician determines that it is in the best 
interest of the employee to be treated by the independent therapist 
because of the therapist's expertise in workplace injuries.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 7; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 9; 2001, ch. 148, Â§ 1; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 28, 29.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-123.  Case management system for coordinating medical care services.  [Effective January 1, 2017, and applicable to actions committed on or after January 1, 2017. 
===================================================================



 




Second of 3 versions of this section

50-6-123.  Case management system for coordinating medical care services.  [Effective January 1, 2017, and applicable to actions committed on or after January 1, 2017. See version applicable to injuries occurring, and actions committed, on and after July 1, 2014, but prior to January 1, 2017.]

(a) All case managers, including case manager assistants, coordinating the medical care services provided to employees claiming benefits or handling claims of employees claimed under this chapter shall be certified by the bureau pursuant to this section.

(b) The administrator shall establish, pursuant to the administrator's rulemaking authority, a system of case management for coordinating the medical care services provided to employees claiming benefits under this chapter; provided, however, it is within the discretion of the administrator to provide or deny case management services to any employee who has suffered a workers' compensation injury. Pursuant to the administrator's rulemaking authority, the administrator may establish:

(1) Minimum standards for the professional practice of case managers and case manager assistants; and

(2) A procedure for case managers and case manager assistants to obtain certification if required pursuant to this section.

(c) Any case manager, case manager assistant, or person or entity that employs a case manager who fails to comply with this section, or rules promulgated pursuant to this section, may be subject, after notice of a violation has been provided, to a penalty of not less than one hundred dollars ($100) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000) per violation, at the discretion of the administrator. In addition to any penalty assessed pursuant to this subsection (c), the administrator may also suspend the person's certification as a case manager or case manager assistant if, in the discretion of the administrator, the person has an established pattern of violations of this section.

(d) The bureau shall notify any person who has violated this section of such violation and may assess a penalty, suspend the person's certification, or both. The person shall have fifteen (15) calendar days from the date notice was sent to appeal the decision pursuant to the procedures provided for under the Uniform Administrative Procedures Act, compiled in title 4, chapter 5, or to pay the assessed penalty.

(e) Nothing in this section shall prevent an employer from establishing its own program of case management that meets the guidelines promulgated by the administrator in rules.

(f) Medical care, treatment, therapy, or services provided at the employee's residence pursuant to this chapter shall not be considered home health services as defined in Â§ 68-11-201 when provided pursuant to direction of the employee's attending physician in the following specific circumstances only:

(1) By a licensed healthcare provider who routinely provides services to employees at the place of employment, if the services rendered by the provider at the employee's residence are of the same type rendered by the provider at the place of employment; or

(2) By a licensed physical therapist, occupational therapist, or speech therapist practicing independently of a home health agency, when the employee's attending physician determines that it is in the best interest of the employee to be treated by the independent therapist because of the therapist's expertise in workplace injuries.

HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 7; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 9; 2001, ch. 148, Â§ 1; 2004, ch. 962, Â§Â§ 28, 29; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1; 2016, ch. 803, Â§ 1.








===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-124.  Utilization review system -- Pre-admission review -- Penalties for rendering excessive or inappropriate services -- Legislative intent -- Treatment guidelines.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section

50-6-124.  Utilization review system -- Pre-admission review -- Penalties for rendering excessive or inappropriate services -- Legislative intent -- Treatment guidelines.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]

(a) The administrator of the bureau of workers' compensation shall establish a system of utilization review of selected outpatient and inpatient healthcare providers for employees claiming benefits under this chapter, to be performed by utilization review organizations accredited by either the Utilization Review Accreditation Commission (URAC) or the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). Utilization review organizations shall be required to provide proof of such accreditation beginning July 1, 2016.

(b) The administrator shall also establish a system of pre-admission review of all hospital admissions, except for emergency services; however, utilization review pursuant to subsection (a) and this subsection (b) shall begin within one (1) working day of all emergency hospital admissions.

(c) Pursuant to the administrator's established system of utilization review, the administrator may contract with an independent utilization review organization, not owned by or affiliated with any carrier authorized to write workers' compensation insurance in the state, to provide utilization review, including peer review.

(d) Nothing in this section shall prevent an employer from electing to provide utilization review; however, if the employee, provider or any other party not contractually bound to the employer's utilization review program disagrees with that employer's utilization review, then that employee, provider or other party shall have recourse to the administrator's utilization review program, as provided for in this section.

(e) Pursuant to the utilization review conducted by the administrator, including providing an opportunity for a hearing, any health care provider who is found by the administrator to have rendered excessive or inappropriate services may be subject to:

(1) A forfeiture of the right to payment for those services that are found to be excessive or inappropriate;

(2) A civil penalty of not less than one hundred dollars ($100) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000); or

(3) A temporary or permanent suspension of the right to provide medical care services for workers' compensation claims if the health care provider has established a pattern of violations.

(f) It is the intent of the general assembly to ensure the availability of quality medical care services for injured and disabled employees and to manage medical costs in workers' compensation matters by eradicating prescription drug abuse through the employment of the system established by subsection (a) to review any healthcare provider prescribing one (1) or more Schedule II, III, or IV controlled substances for pain management to an injured or disabled employee for a period of time exceeding ninety (90) days from the initial prescription of such controlled substances.

(g) In consultation with the administrator's medical advisory committee, the administrator shall, by rules to become effective on January 1, 2016, adopt guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of commonly occurring workers' compensation injuries.

(h) Any treatment that explicitly follows the treatment guidelines adopted by the administrator or is reasonably derived therefrom, including allowances for specific adjustments to treatment, shall have a presumption of medical necessity for utilization review purposes. This presumption shall be rebuttable only by clear and convincing evidence that the treatment erroneously applies the guidelines or that the treatment presents an unwarranted risk to the injured worker.

(i) The administrator may assess a reasonable fee, not to exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250), for an appeal of any utilization review decision.

HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 8; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 11; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2012, ch. 1100, Â§ 2; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 22; 2015, ch. 341, Â§Â§ 3, 15.





===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-124.  Utilization review system -- Pre-admission review -- Penalties for rendering excessive or inappropriate services -- Legislative intent.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-124. Utilization
 review system -- Pre-admission review -- Penalties for rendering 
excessive or inappropriate services -- Legislative intent. [Applicable 
to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) The
 commissioner of labor and workforce development shall establish a 
system of utilization review of selected outpatient and inpatient health
 care providers to employees claiming benefits under this chapter, by 
providers qualified pursuant to law or the utilization review 
accreditation commission.(b) The 
commissioner shall also establish a system of pre-admission review of 
all hospital admissions, except for emergency services; however, 
utilization review pursuant to subsection (a) and this subsection (b) 
shall begin within one (1) working day of all emergency hospital 
admissions.(c) Pursuant to the 
commissioner's established system of utilization review, the 
commissioner may contract with an independent utilization review 
organization, not owned by or affiliated with any carrier authorized to 
write workers' compensation insurance in the state, to provide 
utilization review, including peer review.(d) Nothing
 in this section shall prevent an employer from electing to provide 
utilization review; however, if the employee, provider or any other 
party not contractually bound to the employer's utilization review 
program disagrees with that employer's utilization review, then that 
employee, provider or other party shall have recourse to the 
commissioner's utilization review program, as provided for in this 
section.(e) Pursuant to the 
utilization review conducted by the commissioner, including providing an
 opportunity for a hearing, any health care provider who is found by the
 commissioner to have rendered excessive or inappropriate services may 
be subject to: (1) A forfeiture of the right to payment for those services that are found to be excessive or inappropriate; (2) A civil penalty of not less than one hundred dollars ($100) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000); or (3) A
 temporary or permanent suspension of the right to provide medical care 
services for workers' compensation claims if the health care provider 
has established a pattern of violations.(f) It
 is the intent of the general assembly to ensure the availability of 
quality medical care services for injured and disabled employees and to 
manage medical costs in workers' compensation matters by eradicating 
prescription drug abuse through the employment of the system established
 by subsection (a) to review any healthcare provider prescribing one (1)
 or more Schedule II, III, or IV controlled substances for pain 
management to an injured or disabled employee for a period of time 
exceeding ninety (90) days from the initial prescription of such 
controlled substances.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 8; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 11; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2012, ch. 1100, Â§ 2.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-125.  Medical payment committee.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-125. Medical payment committee. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) The
 administrator shall appoint a medical payment committee. The committee 
shall hear disputes on medical bill payments between providers and 
insurers and advise the administrator on issues relating to the medical 
fee schedule and medical care cost containment in the workers' 
compensation system. Upon hearing disputes on medical bill payments 
between providers and insurers, the medical payment committee shall have
 authority to render a decision on the merits of a dispute. If the 
medical payment committee determines that a provider or insurer has 
acted in bad faith in refusing to provide payment for a medical bill or 
refusing to provide reimbursement for overpayment, the medical payment 
committee, upon a majority vote, shall refer the malfeasant provider or 
insurer to the division for consideration of assessment of a civil 
penalty of no more than one thousand dollars ($1,000) per occurrence. 
Any provider or insurer aggrieved by the assessment of a penalty under 
this subsection (a) shall have the right to seek review of the penalty 
assessment in the manner provided by Â§ 50-6-118(c). (2) The committee shall be comprised of seven (7) voting members appointed by the administrator as follows: (A) Three (3) members shall be representative of the medical provider industry; (B) Three (3) members shall be representative of the workers' compensation insurance industry; and (C) The
 medical director shall serve as the final member of the committee but 
shall not cast a vote unless a vote taken by members results in a tie. 
In that case, the medical director shall cast the deciding vote.(b) In
 making appointments, the administrator shall strive to achieve a 
geographic balance and, in the case of the physician members of the 
committee, shall assure, to the extent possible, that the membership of 
the committee reflects the diversity of specialties involved in the 
medical treatment and management of workers' compensation claimants.(c) Members
 of the committee shall serve without compensation but, when engaged in 
the conduct of their official duties as members of the committee, shall 
be entitled to reimbursement for travel expenses in accordance with 
uniform regulations promulgated by the department of finance and 
administration and approved by the attorney general and reporter.(d) Each
 member appointed shall serve a term of four (4) years and may be 
reappointed by the administrator. If a member leaves the position prior 
to the expiration of the term, the administrator shall appoint an 
individual meeting the qualifications of this section to serve the 
unexpired portion of the term, and the individual may be reappointed by 
the administrator upon expiration of the term.(e) This
 section applies to all disputes of medical bill payments for services 
provided, pursuant to this chapter, on or after July 1, 2014.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 9; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 33; 
2005, ch. 105, Â§ 1, 2; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 23; 2014, ch. 903, Â§ 4.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-125.  Medical care and cost containment committee.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-125. Medical care and cost containment committee. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) The
 commissioner shall appoint a medical care and cost containment 
committee. The committee shall approve regulations pursuant to Â§ 
50-6-233(c)(7) before they become effective, assist the commissioner in 
their implementation, and advise the commissioner, at the commissioner's
 request, on issues relating to medical care and cost containment in the
 workers' compensation system.(b) (1) The committee shall be composed of fifteen (15) voting members appointed by the commissioner as follows: (A) Three
 (3) members shall be physicians licensed to practice medicine and 
surgery under title 63, chapter 6, and shall be appointed from a list of
 nominees submitted by the Tennessee Medical Association; (B) Two
 (2) members shall represent employers and shall be appointed from a 
list of nominees submitted by the Tennessee Chamber of Commerce and 
Industry; (C) One (1) member 
shall represent employers and shall be appointed from a list of nominees
 submitted by the Associated Builders and Contractors, Inc.; (D) Three
 (3) members shall represent employees and shall be appointed from a 
list of nominees submitted by the Tennessee AFL-CIO State Labor Council; (E) Three
 (3) members shall represent hospitals and shall be appointed from a 
list of nominees submitted by the Tennessee Hospital Association; (F) One (1) member shall be a pharmacist and shall be appointed from a list submitted by the Tennessee Pharmacists Association; (G) One (1) member shall represent the health insurance industry; and (H) One
 (1) member shall be a chiropractor and shall be appointed from a list 
of nominees submitted by the Tennessee Chiropractic Association. (2) The medical director shall serve as a nonvoting ex officio member of the committee. (3) An
 organization that submits a list of nominees shall list at least three 
(3) nominees for each of the committee positions for which it is 
requested to submit nominations. If the commissioner finds a list of 
nominees unsatisfactory, the commissioner shall return the list to the 
submitting organization. The organization shall submit another list 
within thirty (30) days. This process shall continue until the 
commissioner appoints a member. If an organization that is required to 
submit a list of nominees fails to do so within thirty (30) days of a 
request for the list by the commissioner, then the commissioner may 
appoint a member of the commissioner's own choosing. (4) In
 making appointments, the commissioner shall strive to achieve a 
geographic balance and, in the case of the physician members of the 
committee, shall assure to the extent possible that the membership of 
the committee reflects the diversity of specialties involved in the 
medical treatment and management of workers' compensation claimants.(c) The
 members of the committee shall be appointed for terms of four (4) 
years. Each member of the committee shall, upon the expiration of such 
member's term, be eligible for reappointment and shall serve until a 
successor is appointed and qualified.(d) Members
 of the committee shall serve without compensation but, when engaged in 
the conduct of their official duties as members of the committee, shall 
be entitled to reimbursement for travel expenses in accordance with 
uniform regulations promulgated by the department of finance and 
administration and approved by the attorney general and reporter.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 9; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 33; 2005, ch. 105, Â§ 1, 2.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions---> 50-6-126.  Medical director. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-126. Medical director. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] The
 administrator shall appoint a medical director who shall be the 
executive secretary and a nonvoting ex officio member of the medical 
committee. The medical director shall be appointed from a list of three 
(3) nominees submitted by the Tennessee Medical Association. If the 
administrator finds the list of three (3) nominees to be unsatisfactory,
 then the administrator shall return the list to the Tennessee Medical 
Association and the association shall submit another list of nominees. 
This process shall be repeated, if necessary, until the administrator 
selects a nominee to be medical director. The medical director may be a 
part-time employee, a full-time employee or a contract employee, and 
shall perform the following functions for which the medical director 
shall be responsible to the administrator or medical care and cost 
containment committee, as appropriate: (1) Institute
 administrative procedures that will enable the medical director to 
evaluate medical care to effect optimal treatment in workers' 
compensation cases; (2) Inquire 
into instances where the medical treatment or the physical 
rehabilitation provided appears to be deficient or incomplete and 
recommend corrective action when indicated; (3) Advise
 on the disposition of complaints of a physician's failure to furnish 
adequate medical care as required by this law or by rules and 
regulations adopted by the administrator, the disposition of complaints 
concerning other aspects of the medical management of a workers' 
compensation case or the failure to render required reports, and the 
disposition of complaints of any affected party as to unreasonable 
interference with the medical management of a workers' compensation 
case; (4) Gather data and maintain records necessary to fulfill the medical director's responsibilities; (5) Conduct studies and prepare and issue reports on the medical aspect of workers' compensation cases; (6) Expedite the submission and processing of medical reports necessary to the processing of claims; (7) Advise
 health care providers of their rights and responsibilities under this 
chapter and under any rules or regulations promulgated pursuant to this 
chapter; (8) Advise the medical 
care and cost containment committee as to the reasonableness of fees for
 medical services in particular cases; and (9) Undertake other functions that may be delegated to the medical director by the administrator.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 10; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-126.  Medical director.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-126. Medical director. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] The
 commissioner shall appoint a medical director who shall be the 
executive secretary and a nonvoting ex officio member of the medical 
committee. The medical director shall be appointed from a list of three 
(3) nominees submitted by the Tennessee Medical Association. If the 
commissioner finds the list of three (3) nominees to be unsatisfactory, 
then the commissioner shall return the list to the Tennessee Medical 
Association and the association shall submit another list of nominees. 
This process shall be repeated, if necessary, until the commissioner 
selects a nominee to be medical director. The medical director may be a 
part-time employee, a full-time employee or a contract employee, and 
shall perform the following functions for which the medical director 
shall be responsible to the commissioner or medical care and cost 
containment committee, as appropriate: (1) Institute
 administrative procedures that will enable the medical director to 
evaluate medical care to effect optimal treatment in workers' 
compensation cases; (2) Inquire 
into instances where the medical treatment or the physical 
rehabilitation provided appears to be deficient or incomplete and 
recommend corrective action when indicated; (3) Advise
 on the disposition of complaints of a physician's failure to furnish 
adequate medical care as required by this law or by rules and 
regulations adopted by the administrator, the disposition of complaints 
concerning other aspects of the medical management of a workers' 
compensation case or the failure to render required reports, and the 
disposition of complaints of any affected party as to unreasonable 
interference with the medical management of a workers' compensation 
case; (4) Gather data and maintain records necessary to fulfill the medical director's responsibilities; (5) Conduct studies and prepare and issue reports on the medical aspect of workers' compensation cases; (6) Expedite the submission and processing of medical reports necessary to the processing of claims; (7) Advise
 health care providers of their rights and responsibilities under this 
chapter and under any rules or regulations promulgated pursuant to this 
chapter; (8) Advise the medical 
care and cost containment committee as to the reasonableness of fees for
 medical services in particular cases; and (9) Undertake other functions that may be delegated to the medical director by the administrator.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 10; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions---> 50-6-127.  Public awareness program concerning workers' compensation fraud -- Investigations and referrals.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-127. Public
 awareness program concerning workers' compensation fraud -- 
Investigations and referrals. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and 
after July 1, 2014.] (a) The 
administrator, in consultation with the commissioner of commerce and 
insurance and appropriate law enforcement officials, shall implement a 
public awareness program concerning workers' compensation fraud.(b) The
 division of workers' compensation shall investigate to determine 
whether any fraudulent conduct relating to workers' compensation is 
being practiced, and shall refer to an appropriate law enforcement 
agency any finding of fraud.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 21; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 12; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 
2000, ch. 852, Â§ 14; 2003, ch. 355, Â§ 16; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions---> 50-6-127.  Public awareness program concerning workers' compensation fraud -- Investigations and referrals.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] 
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-127. Public
 awareness program concerning workers' compensation fraud -- 
Investigations and referrals. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior 
to July 1, 2014.]  (a) The 
commissioner, in consultation with the commissioner of commerce and 
insurance and appropriate law enforcement officials, shall implement a 
public awareness program concerning workers' compensation fraud.(b) The
 division of workers' compensation shall investigate to determine 
whether any fraudulent conduct relating to workers' compensation is 
being practiced, and shall refer to an appropriate law enforcement 
agency any finding of fraud.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 21; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 12; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2000, ch. 852, Â§ 14; 2003, ch. 355, Â§ 16.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-128.  Penalty for employer causing compensable claim to be paid by health insurance or failing to provide necessary medical treatment. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-128. Penalty
 for employer causing compensable claim to be paid by health insurance 
or failing to provide necessary medical treatment. [Applicable to 
injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] If
 any employer knowingly, willfully, and intentionally causes a medical 
or wage loss claim to be paid under health or sickness and accident 
insurance, or fails to provide reasonable and necessary medical 
treatment, including a failure to reimburse when the employer knew that 
the claim arose out of a compensable work-related injury and should have
 been submitted under its workers' compensation insurance coverage, then
 a civil penalty of five hundred dollars ($500) shall be assessed 
against the employer, and the employer may not offset any sickness and 
accident income benefit paid to the employee against its temporary total
 disability benefit payment liability due to the employee pursuant to 
this chapter. The administrator of the division of workers' compensation
 has the authority to assess and collect the civil penalty.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 24; 2000, ch. 734, Â§ 1; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-128.  Penalty for employer causing compensable claim to be paid by health insurance or failing to provide necessary medical treatment.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] 
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-128. Penalty
 for employer causing compensable claim to be paid by health insurance 
or failing to provide necessary medical treatment. [Applicable to 
injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]  If
 any employer knowingly, willfully, and intentionally causes a medical 
or wage loss claim to be paid under health or sickness and accident 
insurance, or fails to provide reasonable and necessary medical 
treatment, including a failure to reimburse when the employer knew that 
the claim arose out of a compensable work-related injury and should have
 been submitted under its workers' compensation insurance coverage, then
 a civil penalty of five hundred dollars ($500) shall be assessed 
against the employer, and the employer may not offset any sickness and 
accident income benefit paid to the employee against its temporary total
 disability benefit payment liability due to the employee pursuant to 
this chapter. The commissioner of labor and workforce development has 
the authority to assess and collect the civil penalty.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 24; 2000, ch. 734, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-129. [Repealed.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-129. [Repealed.]




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-130.  [Repealed.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-130. [Repealed.]HISTORY: Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 2; 1997, ch. 533, Â§ 1; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 4; 2001, 
ch. 192, Â§ 1; 2007, ch. 378, Â§ 2, repealed by Acts 2011, ch. 410, Â§ 
1(c), effective July 1, 2011.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-131.  Confidentiality of medical records.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-131. Confidentiality of medical records. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] Medical
 records provided to the division of workers' compensation in the course
 of its activities and the review of settlements pursuant to this 
chapter shall remain confidential and shall not be considered to be 
public records.HISTORY: Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 25; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 25.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-131.  Confidentiality of medical records.   [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 




Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-131. Confidentiality of medical records. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] Medical
 records provided to the division of workers' compensation in the course
 of its activities relative to benefit review conferences and the review
 of settlements pursuant to this chapter shall remain confidential and 
shall not be considered to be public records.HISTORY: Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 25; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41.







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-132.  Report of employers who fail to provide coverage.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-132. Report of employers who fail to provide 
coverage. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and 
after July 1, 2014.] No later than 
December 31 of each year, the division of workers' compensation shall 
produce a report that includes a listing of the name of each covered 
employer that failed, during the preceding state fiscal year, to provide
 workers' compensation coverage or qualify as a self-insured employer as
 required by law. Only those employers whose failure resulted in periods
 of non-coverage shall be included within the report. The report shall 
also include the penalty assessed by the division and the payment status
 of the penalty. The report shall be provided to the advisory council on
 workers' compensation and the chairs of the commerce and labor 
committee of the senate and the consumer and human resources committee 
of the house of representatives.HISTORY: Acts 1999, ch. 217, Â§ 1; 2011, ch. 410, Â§ 10(b); 2013, ch. 236, Â§ 30.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-133.  Continuing education programs on workers' compensation.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-133. Continuing education programs on workers' compensation. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] It
 is the duty of the administrative office of the courts, in consultation
 with the advisory council on workers' compensation, to develop and 
provide appropriate continuing education programs on topics related to 
workers' compensation at each annual meeting. The continuing education 
shall include both generalized applications of this chapter and the use 
of the AMA Guides. The program shall also address any specific variances
 in the application of this chapter throughout the state.HISTORY: Acts 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 31.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-134.  Annual review. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] 
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-134. Annual review. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]  The
 division shall, on or before July 1, 2015, and annually thereafter, 
review the impact of the Workers' Compensation Reform Act of 2013 on the
 workers' compensation system in this state and deliver a report of its 
findings to each member of the general assembly.HISTORY: Acts 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 41; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 28.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions---> 50-6-134.  Annual review. 50-6-134.  Annual review.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] 
===================================================================



 




Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-134. Annual review. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]  The
 commissioner of commerce and insurance shall, on or before July 1, 
2007, and annually thereafter through 2010, review the impact of Acts 
2004, ch. 962 on premiums charged by insurers who provide workers' 
compensation coverage in this state. The commissioner of commerce and 
insurance is authorized to require the production of any information, 
documents, books or records from any person who is subject to regulation
 by the department that the commissioner deems necessary to implement 
this section.HISTORY: Acts 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 41.







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 1. General Provisions--->50-6-135.  Medical advisory committee. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 












50-6-135. Medical advisory committee. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) The
 administrator shall appoint a medical advisory committee comprised of 
practitioners in the medical community having experience in the 
treatment of workers' compensation injuries, representatives of the 
insurance industry, employer representatives, and employee 
representatives to assist the administrator in the development of 
treatment guidelines and advise the administrator on issues relating to 
medical care in the workers' compensation system. (2) The medical director shall serve as a nonvoting ex-officio member of the committee.(b) In
 making appointments, the administrator shall strive to achieve a 
geographic balance and, in the case of the physician members of the 
committee, shall assure, to the extent possible, that the membership of 
the committee reflects the diversity of specialties involved in the 
medical treatment and management of workers' compensation claimants.(c) Members
 of the committee shall serve without compensation but, when engaged in 
the conduct of their official duties as members of the committee, shall 
be entitled to reimbursement for travel expenses in accordance with 
uniform regulations promulgated by the department of finance and 
administration and approved by the attorney general and reporter.(d) Each
 member appointed shall serve a term of four (4) years and may be 
reappointed by the administrator. If a member leaves the position prior 
to the expiration of the term, the administrator shall appoint an 
individual meeting the qualifications of this section to serve the 
unexpired portion of the term. The individual may be reappointed by the 
administrator upon expiration of the term.HISTORY: Acts 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 24.







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-201.  Notice of injury.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Tenn. Code Ann. Â§ 50-6-201  (2017)

First of 2 versions of this section


50-6-201.  Notice of injury.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014. See 2016 Compiler's. ]

(a) (1) Every injured employee or the injured employee's representative shall, immediately upon the occurrence of an injury, or as soon thereafter as is reasonable and practicable, give or cause to be given to the employer who has no actual notice, written notice of the injury, and the employee shall not be entitled to physician's fees or to any compensation that may have accrued under this chapter, from the date of the accident to the giving of notice, unless it can be shown that the employer had actual knowledge of the accident. No compensation shall be payable under this chapter, unless the written notice is given to the employer within fifteen (15) days after the occurrence of the accident, unless reasonable excuse for failure to give the notice is made to the satisfaction of the tribunal to which the claim for compensation may be presented.

(2) The notice of the occurrence of an accident by the employee required to be given to the employer shall state in plain and simple language the name and address of the employee and the time, place, nature, and cause of the accident resulting in injury or death. The notice shall be signed by the claimant or by some person authorized to sign on the claimant's behalf, or by any one (1) or more of the claimant's dependents if the accident resulted in death to the employee.

(3) No defect or inaccuracy in the notice shall be a bar to compensation, unless the employer can show, to the satisfaction of the workers' compensation judge before which the matter is pending, that the employer was prejudiced by the failure to give the proper notice, and then only to the extent of the prejudice.

(4) The notice shall be given personally to the employer or to the employer's agent or agents having charge of the business at which the injury was sustained by the employee.

(b) In those cases where the injuries occur as the result of gradual or cumulative events or trauma, then the injured employee or the injured employee's representative shall provide notice of the injury to the employer within fifteen (15) days after the employee:

(1) Knows or reasonably should know that the employee has suffered a work-related injury that has resulted in permanent physical impairment; or

(2) Is rendered unable to continue to perform the employee's normal work activities as the result of the work-related injury and the employee knows or reasonably should know that the injury was caused by work-related activities.

(c) [Deleted by 2013 amendment, effective July 1, 2014.]

HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 22; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a171; Code 1932, Â§ 6872; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1001; Acts 2001, ch. 219, Â§ 1; 2006, ch. 1014, Â§ 3; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 29; 2016, ch. 1056, Â§ 1.





===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-201.  Notice of injury.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-201. Notice of injury. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) Every
 injured employee or the injured employee's representative shall, 
immediately upon the occurrence of an injury, or as soon thereafter as 
is reasonable and practicable, give or cause to be given to the employer
 who has no actual notice, written notice of the injury, and the 
employee shall not be entitled to physician's fees or to any 
compensation that may have accrued under this chapter, from the date of 
the accident to the giving of notice, unless it can be shown that the 
employer had actual knowledge of the accident. No compensation shall be 
payable under this chapter, unless the written notice is given the 
employer within thirty (30) days after the occurrence of the accident, 
unless reasonable excuse for failure to give the notice is made to the 
satisfaction of the tribunal to which the claim for compensation may be 
presented.(b) In those cases where 
the injuries occur as the result of gradual or cumulative events or 
trauma, then the injured employee or the injured employee's 
representative shall provide notice of the injury to the employer within
 thirty (30) days after the employee: (1) Knows
 or reasonably should know that the employee has suffered a work-related
 injury that has resulted in permanent physical impairment; or (2) Is
 rendered unable to continue to perform the employee's normal work 
activities as the result of the work-related injury and the employee 
knows or reasonably should know that the injury was caused by 
work-related activities.(c) Within 
thirty (30) calendar days of the notice of injury, the insurer, 
employer, or self-insured pool or trust shall file with the department, 
on a form prescribed by the department, a wage statement detailing the 
employee's wages for the previous fifty-two (52) weeks, unless the 
employer stipulates that the maximum weekly workers' compensation rate 
applies in the particular matter. In the event the insurer, employer, or
 self-insured pool or trust knowingly and intentionally fails to timely 
file the wage statement, a workers' compensation specialist may deem the
 employee's compensation rate to be the maximum workers' compensation 
rate effective on the date of injury. This subsection (c) shall apply 
only to accidents that result in death or personal injury of such a 
nature that the injured person either does not return to the person's 
employment within seven (7) days after the occurrence of the accident or
 has a permanent impairment resulting from the accident. If the 
employer, insurer or self-insured pool fails to file the wage statement 
within thirty (30) days and the maximum rate is imposed, then the 
employer, insurer or self-insured pool may file a wage statement at a 
later time. If the late filed wage statement reflects that the 
compensation rate is less than the maximum compensation rate, the 
employer, insurer or self-insured pool may then reduce the compensation 
rate.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 22; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a171; Code 1932, Â§ 6872; 
impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1001; Acts 
2001, ch. 219, Â§ 1; 2006, ch. 1014, Â§ 3.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-202.  Electronic submission and processing of medical bills. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-202. Electronic submission and processing of medical bills. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.](a) On
 or after July 1, 2014, the administrator, in cooperation with the 
commissioner of commerce and insurance, shall adopt rules regarding the 
electronic submission and processing of medical bills by health care 
providers to insurance carriers.(b) Insurance
 carriers shall accept medical bills submitted electronically by health 
care providers in accordance with the administrator's rules.(c) The
 administrator shall establish by rule the criteria for granting 
exceptions to insurance carriers and health care providers who are 
unable to submit or accept medical bills electronically.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 23; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a172; Code 1932, Â§ 6873; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1002; Acts 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 30.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-202.  Contents and service of notice.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-202. Contents and service of notice. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) The
 notice required to be given of the occurrence of an accident to the 
employer shall state in plain and simple language the name and address 
of the employee, the time, place, and nature and cause of the accident 
resulting in injury or death, and shall be signed by the claimant or by 
some person on the claimant's behalf, or by any one (1) or more of the 
claimant's dependents if the accident resulted in death to the employee. (2) No
 defect or inaccuracy in the notice shall be a bar to compensation, 
unless the employer can show to the satisfaction of the tribunal in 
which the matter is pending that the employer was prejudiced by the 
failure to give the proper notice, and then only to the extent of the 
prejudice.(b) The notice shall be 
given personally to the employer or to the employer's agent or agents 
having charge of the business in working at which the injury was 
sustained by the employee.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 23; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a172; Code 1932, Â§ 6873; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1002.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation---> 50-6-203.  Limitation of time, claims and actions.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-203. Limitation of time, claims and actions. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) No
 request for a hearing by a workers' compensation judge under this 
chapter shall be filed with the court of workers' compensation claims, 
other than a request for settlement approval, until a workers' 
compensation mediator has issued a dispute certification notice 
certifying issues in dispute for hearing before a workers' compensation 
judge.(b) (1) In instances 
when the employer has not paid workers' compensation benefits to or on 
behalf of the employee, the right to compensation under this chapter 
shall be forever barred, unless the notice required by Â§ 50-6-201 is 
given to the employer and a petition for benefit determination is filed 
with the division on a form prescribed by the administrator within one 
(1) year after the accident resulting in injury. (2) In
 instances when the employer has voluntarily paid workers' compensation 
benefits, within one (1) year following the accident resulting in 
injury, the right to compensation is forever barred, unless a petition 
for benefit determination is filed with the division on a form 
prescribed by the administrator within one (1) year from the latter of 
the date of the last authorized treatment or the time the employer 
ceased to make payments of compensation to or on behalf of the employee.(c) For
 purposes of this section, the issuing date of the last payment of 
compensation by the employer, not the date of its receipt, shall 
constitute the time the employer ceased making payments and an employer 
or its insurer shall provide the date on request.(d) In
 case of physical or mental incapacity, other than minority, of the 
injured person or the injured person's dependents to perform or cause to
 be performed any action required within the time specified in this 
section, then the period of limitation in the case shall be extended for
 one (1) year from the date when the incapacity ceases.(e) (1) Unless
 a claim for death benefits is settled or voluntarily paid, the 
dependent or dependents of a deceased employee shall file a petition for
 benefit determination on a form prescribed by the administrator within 
one (1) year after the date of the employee's death. (2) In
 the event the deceased employee was a native of a foreign country and 
leaves no known dependent or dependents within the United States, it 
shall be the duty of the administrator to give written notice forthwith 
of the death to the duly accredited consular officer of the country of 
which the beneficiaries are citizens.(f) If
 the employee fails to appear and participate in alternative dispute 
resolution as scheduled by the division, a workers' compensation judge 
shall have the authority to dismiss the employee's claim by sending a 
copy of the order of dismissal by certified mail with return receipt 
requested to the employee's last known address. The order of dismissal 
for failure to participate in alternative dispute resolution shall 
become final and the claim shall be forever barred, unless the employee 
contacts the division to schedule mediation and attends mediation within
 sixty (60) days after the date on which the workers' compensation judge
 enters the order of dismissal. If the employee complies with the 
requirements of this subsection (f) within the timeframe provided, the 
workers' compensation judge shall rescind the order dismissing the 
employee's claim for failure to participate in alternative dispute 
resolution.(g) [Deleted by 2013 amendment, effective July 1, 2014.](h) [Deleted by 2013 amendment, effective July 1, 2014.](i) Proceedings
 to obtain a judgment in the case of the failure of the employer for 
thirty (30) days to pay any compensation due under any settlement or 
determination shall be filed within one (1) year after the default.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 24; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a173; Code 1932, Â§ 6874; 
Acts 1947, ch. 139, Â§ 4; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6874; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch.
 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1003; Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 13; 
1998, ch. 1024, Â§ 1, 2; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 14; 2005,
 ch. 390, Â§ 5, 6; 2008, ch. 1183, Â§ 10; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1; 2013, ch. 
289, Â§ 31-34.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-203.  Limitation of time, claims and actions.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 




Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-203. Limitation of time, claims and actions. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) No
 claim for compensation under this chapter shall be filed with a court 
having jurisdiction to hear workers' compensation matters, as provided 
in Â§ 50-6-225, until the parties have exhausted the benefit review 
conference process provided by the division of workers' compensation. (2) Notwithstanding
 this section, if the parties have mutually agreed to a compromise and 
settlement of a claim for workers' compensation, the parties shall not 
be required to exhaust the benefit review conference process before 
filing a claim and submitting the compromise and settlement to the 
appropriate court for approval pursuant to Â§ 50-6-206(a) or to the 
commissioner or the commissioner's designee pursuant to Â§ 50-6-206(c). 
If the settlement is not approved, the parties shall then exhaust the 
benefit review conference process.(b) (1) In
 those instances where the employer has not paid workers' compensation 
benefits to or on behalf of the employee, the right to compensation 
under this chapter shall be forever barred, unless the notice required 
by Â§ 50-6-202 is given to the employer and a benefit review conference 
is requested on a form prescribed by the commissioner and filed with the
 division within one (1) year after the accident resulting in injury. (2) In
 those instances where the employer has paid workers' compensation 
benefits, either voluntarily or as a result of an order to do so, within
 one (1) year following the accident resulting in injury, the right to 
compensation is forever barred, unless a form prescribed by the 
commissioner requesting a benefit review conference is filed with the 
division within one (1) year from the latter of the date of the last 
authorized treatment or the time the employer ceased to make payments of
 compensation to or on behalf of the employee.(c) For
 purposes of this section, the issuing date of the last payment of 
compensation by the employer, not the date of its receipt, shall 
constitute the time the employer ceased making payments and an employer 
or its insurer shall provide the date on request.(d) In
 case of physical or mental incapacity, other than minority, of the 
injured person or the injured person's dependents to perform or cause to
 be performed any action required within the time specified in this 
section, then the period of limitation in the case shall be extended for
 one (1) year from the date when the incapacity ceases.(e) (1) Unless
 a claim for death benefits is settled or voluntarily paid, the 
dependent or dependents of a deceased employee shall request a benefit 
review conference within one (1) year of the date of death of the 
employee. (2) In the event the 
deceased employee was a native of a foreign country and leaves no known 
dependent or dependents within the United States, it shall be the duty 
of the commissioner to give written notice forthwith of the death to the
 duly accredited consular officer of the country of which the 
beneficiaries are citizens.(f) In 
the event the employee fails to appear and participate in the benefit 
review conference as scheduled by the division, the commissioner shall 
have the authority to dismiss the employee's claim by sending a copy of 
the order of dismissal by certified mail with return receipt requested 
to the employee's last known address. The order of dismissal shall 
become final and the claim shall be forever barred, unless the employee 
contacts the department to schedule a benefit review conference and 
attends a benefit review conference within sixty (60) days of the date 
the order of dismissal is signed by the commissioner or the 
commissioner's designee.(g) (1) If
 the parties are not able to reach a compromise and settlement of all 
issues at the benefit review conference held pursuant to this section, 
the parties shall have ninety (90) days, after the date a written 
agreement or a written report regarding the conference is filed with the
 commissioner pursuant to Â§ 50-6-240, to file a complaint with a court 
of competent jurisdiction as provided in Â§ 50-6-225. The division of 
workers' compensation shall maintain an official record of the date on 
which a written agreement or written report is filed with the 
commissioner and supply the information to the parties or the 
appropriate court upon request of either the parties or the court. (2) Notwithstanding subdivision (g)(1), in no event shall an employee have less than the latter of: (A) One (1) year from the date of the accident resulting in injury; or (B) One
 (1) year from the latter of the date of the last authorized treatment 
or the time the employer ceased to make payments of compensation to or 
on behalf of the employee in which to file a complaint with a court of 
competent jurisdiction, as provided in Â§ 50-6-225.(h) In
 the event a workers' compensation's complaint is filed with a court of 
competent jurisdiction pursuant to this section by the employer or the 
employer's agent and the employer or agent files notice of non-suit of 
the action, either party shall have ninety (90) days from the date of 
the order of dismissal to institute an action for recovery of benefits 
under this chapter.(i) Proceedings 
to obtain a judgment in the case of the failure of the employer for 
thirty (30) days to pay any compensation due under any settlement or 
determination shall be filed within one (1) year after the default.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 24; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a173; Code 1932, Â§ 6874; 
Acts 1947, ch. 139, Â§ 4; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6874; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch.
 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1003; Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 13; 
1998, ch. 1024, Â§ 1, 2; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 14; 2005,
 ch. 390, Â§ 5, 6; 2008, ch. 1183, Â§ 10.   







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-204.  Medical treatment, attendance and hospitalization -- Release of medical records -- Reports -- Disputes -- Reimbursement or payment of expenses -- Burial expenses -- Physical examinations -- Pain management -- Impairment ratings. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-204. Medical
 treatment, attendance and hospitalization -- Release of medical records
 -- Reports -- Disputes -- Reimbursement or payment of expenses -- 
Burial expenses -- Physical examinations -- Pain management -- 
Impairment ratings. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 
1, 2014.] (a) (1) (A) The
 employer or the employer's agent shall furnish, free of charge to the 
employee, such medical and surgical treatment, medicine, medical and 
surgical supplies, crutches, artificial members, and other reasonable 
and necessary apparatus, including prescription eyeglasses and eye wear,
 such nursing services or psychological services as ordered by the 
attending physician and hospitalization, including such dental work made
 reasonably necessary by accident as defined in this chapter. (B) No
 medical provider shall charge more than ten dollars ($10.00) for the 
first twenty (20) pages or less, and twenty-five cents (25cent(s)) per 
page for each page after the first twenty (20) pages, for any medical 
reports, medical records or documents pertaining to medical treatment or
 hospitalization of the employee that are furnished pursuant to this 
subsection (a). (2) (A) It
 is the intent of the general assembly that the administration of the 
workers' compensation system proceed in a timely manner and that the 
parties and the division have reasonable access to the employee's 
medical records and medical providers that are pertinent to and 
necessary for the efficient resolution of the employee's workers' 
compensation claim in a timely manner. To that end, employers or case 
managers may communicate with the employee's authorized treating 
physician, orally or in writing, and each medical provider shall be 
required to release the records of any employee treated for a 
work-related injury to both the employer and the employee within thirty 
(30) days after admission or treatment. There shall be no implied 
covenant of confidentiality with respect to those records, which will 
include all written memoranda or visual or recorded materials, e-mails 
and any written materials provided to the employee's authorized treating
 physician, by case managers, employers, insurance companies, or their 
attorneys or received from the employee's authorized treating physician. (B) For
 purposes of subdivision (a)(2), "employer" means the employer, the 
employer's attorney, the employer's insurance carrier or third party 
administrator, a case manager as authorized by Â§ 50-6-123, or any 
utilization review agent as authorized by Â§ 50-6-124 during the 
employee's treatment for the claimed workers' compensation injury. (C) If
 the division becomes involved in the appeal of a utilization review 
issue, then the division is authorized to communicate with the medical 
provider involved in the dispute, either orally or in writing, to permit
 the timely resolution of the issue and shall notify the employee, 
employer, and any attorney representing the employee or employer that 
they may review or copy the documents and responses. Each party 
requesting copies of records shall pay a fee authorized by subdivision 
(a)(1)(B) prior to the division providing the requested copies. (D) No
 relevant information developed in connection with authorized medical 
treatment or an examination provided pursuant to this section for which 
compensation is sought by the employee shall be considered a privileged 
communication, and no medical provider shall incur any liability as a 
result of providing medical information, records, opinions, or reports 
as described in subdivision (a)(2)(C); provided, that the medical 
provider complies with subdivision (a)(2)(C). (3) (A) (i) The
 injured employee shall accept the medical benefits afforded under this 
section; provided that in any case when the employee has suffered an 
injury and expressed a need for medical care, the employer shall 
designate a group of three (3) or more independent reputable physicians,
 surgeons, chiropractors or specialty practice groups if available in 
the injured employee's community or, if not so available, in accordance 
with subdivision (a)(3)(B), from which the injured employee shall select
 one (1) to be the treating physician. (ii) When
 necessary, the treating physician selected in accordance with this 
subdivision (a)(3)(A) shall make referrals to a specialist physician, 
surgeon, or chiropractor and immediately notify the employer. The 
employer shall be deemed to have accepted the referral, unless the 
employer, within three (3) business days, provides the employee a panel 
of three (3) or more independent reputable physicians, surgeons, 
chiropractors or specialty practice groups. In this case, the employee 
may choose a specialist physician, surgeon, chiropractor or specialty 
practice group to provide treatment only from the panel provided by the 
employer. (iii) The 
liability of the employer for the services provided to the employee 
shall be limited to the maximum allowable fees that are established in 
the applicable medical fee schedule adopted pursuant to this section. (iv) The
 division shall have authority to waive subdivision (a)(3)(A)(iii) when 
necessary to provide treatment for an injured employee. (B) If
 three (3) or more independent reputable physicians, surgeons, 
chiropractors or specialty practice groups are not available in the 
employee's community, the employer shall provide a list of three (3) 
independent reputable physicians, surgeons, chiropractors or specialty 
practice groups, within a one hundred (100) mile radius of the 
employee's community. (C) When
 the treating physician or chiropractor refers the injured employee, the
 employee shall be entitled to have a second opinion on the issue of 
surgery and diagnosis from a physician or chiropractor from a panel of 
two (2) physicians practicing in the same specialty as the physician who
 recommended the surgery. In cases where the employer has provided a 
panel of specialists pursuant to subdivision (a)(3)(A)(i) of this 
section, the employee may choose one (1) of the two (2) remaining 
specialists to provide a second opinion on the issue of surgery and 
diagnosis. The employee's decision to obtain a second opinion shall not 
alter the previous selection of the treating physician or chiropractor. (D) (i) The
 employer shall provide the applicable panel of physicians or 
chiropractors to the employee in writing on a form prescribed by the 
division, and the employee shall select a physician or chiropractor from
 the panel, sign and date the completed form, and return the form to the
 employer. The employer shall provide a copy of the completed form to 
the employee and shall maintain a copy of the completed form in the 
records of the employer and shall produce a copy of the completed form 
upon request by the division. (ii) In
 any case when the employee has been presented the physician selection 
form but has failed to sign the completed form and return it to the 
employer, the employee's receipt of treatment from any physician 
provided in the panel after the date the panel was provided shall 
constitute acceptance of the panel and selection of the physician from 
whom the employee received treatment as the treating physician, 
specialist physician, chiropractor or surgeon. (E) In
 all cases where the treating physician has referred the employee to a 
specialist physician, surgeon, chiropractor or specialty practice group,
 the specialist physician, surgeon, or chiropractor to which the 
employee has been referred, or selected by the employee from a panel 
provided by the employer, shall become the treating physician until 
treatment by the specialist physician, surgeon, or chiropractor 
concludes and the employee has been referred back to the treating 
physician selected by the employee from the initial panel provided by 
the employer under subdivision (a)(3)(A). (F) In
 all cases when an employee changes the employee's community of 
residence after selection of a physician under this subdivision (a)(3), 
the employer shall provide the employee, upon written request, a new 
panel of reputable physicians, surgeons, chiropractors or specialty 
practice groups, as provided in subdivision (a)(3)(A), from which the 
injured employee shall select one (1) to be the treating physician. (G) If
 any physician, surgeon, chiropractor or specialty practice group 
included on a panel provided to an employee under this subsection 
declines to accept the employee as a patient for the purpose of 
providing treatment to the employee for his workers' compensation 
injury, the employee may either select a physician from the remaining 
physicians, surgeons or chiropractors included on the initial panel 
provided to the employee pursuant to subdivision (a)(3)(A) or request 
that the employer provide an additional choice of a physician, surgeon, 
chiropractor or specialty practice group to replace the physician, 
surgeon or chiropractor who refused to accept the injured employee as a 
patient for the purpose of treating the employee's workers' compensation
 injury. (H) Any treatment 
recommended by a physician or chiropractor selected pursuant to this 
subdivision (a)(3) or by referral, if applicable, shall be presumed to 
be medically necessary for treatment of the injured employee. (I) Following
 the adoption of treatment guidelines pursuant to Â§ 50-6-124, the 
presumption of medical necessity for treatment recommended by a 
physician or chiropractor selected pursuant to this subsection or by 
referral, if applicable, shall be rebuttable only by clear and 
convincing evidence demonstrating that the recommended treatment 
substantially deviates from, or presents an unreasonable interpretation 
of, the treatment guidelines. (4) [Deleted by 2013 amendment, effective July 1, 2014.] (5) [Deleted by 2013 amendment, effective July 1, 2014.] (6) (A) When
 an injured worker is required by the worker's employer to travel to an 
authorized medical provider or facility located outside a radius of 
fifteen (15) miles from the insured worker's residence or workplace, 
then, upon request, the employee shall be reimbursed for reasonable 
travel expenses. The injured employee's travel reimbursement shall be 
calculated based on a per mile reimbursement rate, as defined in 
subdivision (a)(6)(B), times the total round trip mileage as measured 
from the employee's residence or workplace to the location of the 
medical provider's facility. The definition of community as contemplated
 by this subdivision (a)(6)(A) shall apply only for the purposes of this
 section. (B) The per mile 
reimbursement rate for the injured employee shall be no less than the 
mileage allowance authorized for state employees who have been 
authorized to use personally owned vehicles in the performance of their 
duties. This minimum per mile reimbursement rate shall be based on the 
last published comprehensive travel regulations promulgated by the 
department of finance and administration.(b) (1) Where
 the nature of the injury or occupational disease, as defined in Â§ 
50-6-102, is such that it does not disable the employee but reasonably 
requires medical, surgical, psychological or dental treatment or care, 
medicine, surgery, dental and psychological treatment, medicine, medical
 and surgical supplies, crutches, artificial members, and other 
apparatus shall be furnished by the employer. (2) [Deleted by 2013 amendment, effective July 1, 2014.](c) In
 case death results from the injury or occupational disease, as defined 
in Â§ 50-6-102, the employer shall, in addition to the medical services, 
etc., referred to in subsections (a) and (b), pay the burial expenses of
 the deceased employee, not exceeding seven thousand five hundred 
dollars ($7,500). If the deceased employee leaves no dependents entitled
 to compensation under this chapter, the employer shall pay to the 
employee's estate the additional benefits provided in Â§ 50-6-209(b)(2) 
and (3), and shall also be liable for the medical and hospital services 
and burial expenses provided for in this section.(d) (1) The
 injured employee must submit to examination by the employer's physician
 at all reasonable times if requested to do so by the employer, but the 
employee shall have the right to have the employee's own physician 
present at the examination, in which case the employee shall be liable 
to the employee's physician for that physician's services. (2) Any
 medical report submitted to the employer based upon the examination, or
 a true copy of the report, shall be furnished by the employer to the 
employee upon request; provided, that the employer may, in the 
employer's discretion, furnish the report to the attorney for the 
employee or to a member of the employee's family. (3) [Deleted by 2013 amendment, effective July 1, 2014.] (4) The employer shall pay for the services of the physician making the examination at the instance of the employer. (5) When
 a dispute as to the degree of medical impairment exists, either party 
may request an independent medical examiner from the administrator's 
registry. If the parties are unable to mutually agree on the selection 
of an independent medical examiner from the administrator's registry, it
 shall be the responsibility of the employer to provide a written 
request to the administrator for assignment of an independent medical 
examiner with a copy of the notice provided to the other party. Upon 
receipt of the written request, the administrator shall provide the 
names of three (3) independent medical examiners chosen at random from 
the registry. No physician may serve as an independent medical examiner 
in a case and serve on any panel of providers selected under this 
section for the employer involved in such case. The administrator shall 
immediately notify the parties by facsimile or e-mail when the list of 
independent medical examiners has been assigned to a matter, but in any 
event the notification shall be made within five (5) business days of 
the date of the request. The employer may strike one (1) name from the 
list, with the rejection made and communicated to the other party by 
facsimile or e-mail no later than the third business day after the date 
on which notification of the list is provided. The employee shall select
 a physician to perform the independent medical examination from the 
remaining physicians on the list. All costs and fees for an independent 
medical examination and report made pursuant to this subdivision (d)(5) 
shall be paid by the employer. The written opinion as to the permanent 
impairment rating given by the independent medical examiner pursuant to 
this subdivision (d)(5) shall be presumed to be the accurate impairment 
rating; provided, however, that this presumption may be rebutted by 
clear and convincing evidence to the contrary. (6) The
 administrator shall establish by rule, in accordance with the Uniform 
Administrative Procedures Act, compiled in title 4, chapter 5, an 
independent medical examiners registry. The administrator shall 
establish qualifications for the independent medical examiners, 
including continuing education and peer review requirements, with the 
advice of the Tennessee Medical Association and the advisory council on 
workers' compensation, established by Â§ 50-6-121. The rules established 
shall include, but not be limited to, qualifications and procedures for 
submission of an application for inclusion on the registry, procedures 
for the review and maintenance of the registry, and procedures for 
assignment that ensures that the composition of the panels is random. (7) Whenever
 the nature of the injury is such that specialized medical attention is 
required or indicated and the specialized medical attention is not 
available in the community in which the injured employee resides, the 
injured employee can be required to go, at the request of and at the 
expense of the employer, to the nearest location at which the 
specialized medical attention is available. (8) If
 the injured employee refuses to comply with any reasonable request for 
examination or to accept the medical or specialized medical services 
that the employer is required to furnish under this chapter, the injured
 employee's right to compensation shall be suspended and no compensation
 shall be due and payable while the injured employee continues to 
refuse. (9) For accidents or 
injuries occurring on or after July 1, 2005, in case of a dispute as to 
the injury, other than disputes as to the degree of medical impairment, 
the court may, at the instance of either party or on its own motion, 
appoint a neutral physician of good standing and ability to make an 
examination of the injured person and report the physician's findings to
 the court, the expense of which examination shall be borne equally by 
the parties.(e) In all death claims
 where the cause of death is obscure or is disputed, any interested 
party may require an autopsy, the cost of which is to be borne by the 
party demanding the autopsy.(f) Any
 physician whose services are furnished or paid for by the employer and 
who treats or makes or is present at any examination of an injured 
employee may be required to testify as to any knowledge acquired by the 
physician in the course of the treatment or examination as the treatment
 or examination relates to the injury or disability arising therefrom.(g) (1) If
 an emergency, or on account of the employer's failure or refusal to 
provide the medical care and services required by this law, the injured 
employee or the injured employee's dependents may provide the medical 
care and services, and the cost of the medical care and services, not 
exceeding three hundred dollars ($300), shall be borne by the employer; 
provided, that the pecuniary liability of the employer shall be limited 
to the charges for the service that prevail in the community where the 
services are rendered. (2) (A) If
 an employer does not provide medical care and treatment, medical 
services or medical benefits, or both, that an employee contends should 
be provided as a result of a judgment or decree entered by a workers' 
compensation judge following a workers' compensation trial or as a 
result of a workers' compensation settlement agreement, either the 
employee or the employer, or the attorney for the employee or employer, 
shall request the assistance of a workers' compensation mediator to 
determine whether such medical care and treatment, medical services or 
medical benefits, or both, are appropriate by filing a petition for 
benefit determination and participating in alternative dispute 
resolution as provided in Â§ 50-6-236. If the parties do not resolve the 
dispute by agreement, either party may file a request for a hearing and 
submit the dispute to a workers' compensation judge for resolution after
 the workers' compensation mediator has issued a dispute certification 
notice in accordance with Â§ 50-6-236. (B) A
 workers' compensation judge shall have the authority to determine 
whether it is appropriate to order the employer or the employer's 
insurer to provide specific medical care and treatment, medical services
 or medical benefits, or both, to the employee pursuant to a judgment or
 decree entered by a judge following a workers' compensation trial or 
pursuant to a workers' compensation settlement agreement approved by a 
workers' compensation judge pursuant to Â§ 50-6-240. The workers' 
compensation judge's authority shall include, but is not limited to, the
 authority to order specific medical care and treatment, medical 
services or medical benefits, or both. The authority of a workers' 
compensation judge to order the provision of benefits under this section
 shall include authority to order specific medical care and treatment, 
medical services or medical benefits, or both for all settlements 
approved by the department, the division, the commissioner, the 
commissioner's designee or a workers' compensation specialist, even if 
the settlement was approved under prior law.(h) All
 psychological or psychiatric services available under subdivisions 
(a)(1) and (b)(1) shall be rendered only by psychologists or 
psychiatrists and shall be limited to those ordered upon the referral of
 physicians authorized under subdivision (a)(4).(i) (1) The
 administrator, in consultation with the medical care and cost 
containment committee and the advisory council on workers' compensation,
 is authorized to establish by rule, in accordance with the Uniform 
Administrative Procedures Act, a comprehensive medical fee schedule and a
 related system that includes, but is not limited to, procedures for 
review of charges, enforcement procedures and appeal hearings to 
implement the fee schedule. In developing the rules, the administrator 
shall strive to assure the delivery of quality medical care in workers' 
compensation cases and access by injured workers to primary and 
specialist care while controlling prices and system costs. The medical 
care fee schedule shall be comprehensive in scope and shall address fees
 of physicians and surgeons, hospitals, prescription drugs, and 
ancillary services provided by other health care facilities and 
providers. The administrator may consider any and all reimbursement 
systems and methodologies in developing the fee schedule, except that, 
in no event shall the fee schedule set forth differing rates for 
reimbursement or conversion factors for reimbursement of physical or 
occupational therapy services based or dependent on whether the services
 are performed in independently-owned facilities or physician-affiliated
 facilities, and shall not otherwise consider the physician ownership in
 the facility providing services. However, differing reimbursement rates
 may be implemented by the administrator upon the department's 
presentation of state data demonstrating there is a need for differing 
reimbursement rates for physical/occupational therapy services and upon 
the department's holding a public hearing on the issue. (2) The
 administrator is authorized to retain experts to assist in the 
development of the fee schedule and related system in accordance with 
the contracting rules of the department of finance and administration. (3) The
 administrator, in consultation with the medical care and cost 
containment committee and the advisory council on workers' compensation,
 shall review the fee schedules adopted pursuant to this section on an 
annual basis and when appropriate the administrator shall revise the fee
 schedules as necessary. It is the intent of the general assembly that 
this annual review consider, among other factors, the medical consumer 
price index. (4) The 
comprehensive medical fee schedule adopted pursuant to this subsection 
(i) is not intended to prohibit an employer, trust or pool, or insurer 
from negotiating lower fees in its own medical fee agreements.(j) (1) If
 a treating physician determines that pain is persisting for an injured 
or disabled employee beyond an expected period for healing, the treating
 physician may either prescribe, if the physician is a qualified 
physician as defined in subdivision (j)(2)(B), or refer, such injured or
 disabled employee for pain management encompassing pharmacological, 
nonpharmacological and other approaches to manage chronic pain. (2) (A) In
 the event that a treating physician refers an injured or disabled 
employee for pain management, the employee is entitled to a panel of 
qualified physicians as provided in subdivision (a)(4) except that, in 
light of the variation in availability of qualified pain management 
resources across the state, if the office of each qualified physician 
listed on the panel is located not more than one hundred seventy-five 
(175) miles from the injured or disabled employee's residence or place 
of employment, then the community requirement of subdivision (a)(4) 
shall not apply for the purposes of pain management. (B) For
 the purposes of the panel required by subdivision (j)(2)(A), "qualified
 physician" means an individual licensed to practice medicine or 
osteopathy in this state and: (i) Board
 certified in anesthesiology, neurological surgery, orthopedic surgery, 
radiology or physical medicine and rehabilitation through the: (a) American Board of Medical Specialties (ABMS); (b) American Osteopathic Association (AOA); or (c) Another organization authorized by the administrator; (ii) Board certified by an organization listed in subdivision (j)(2)(B)(i)(a)-(c)
 in a specialty other than a specialty listed in subdivision 
(j)(2)(B)(i) and who has completed an ABMS or AOA subspecialty board in 
pain medicine, or completed an Accreditation Council for Graduate 
Medical Education (ACGMA) accredited pain fellowship; or (iii) Serving as a clinical instructor in pain management at an accredited Tennessee medical training program. (3) The
 injured or disabled employee is not entitled to a second opinion on the
 issue of impairment, diagnosis or prescribed treatment relating to pain
 management. However, on no more than one (1) occasion, if the injured 
or disabled employee submits a request in writing to the employer 
stating that the prescribed pain management fails to meet medically 
accepted standards, then the employer shall initiate and participate in 
utilization review as provided in this chapter for the limited purpose 
of determining whether the prescribed pain management meets medically 
accepted standards. (4) (A) As
 a condition of receiving pain management that requires prescribing 
Schedule II, III, or IV controlled substances, the injured or disabled 
employee may sign a formal written agreement with the physician 
prescribing the Schedule II, III, or IV controlled substances 
acknowledging the conditions under which the injured or disabled 
employee may continue to be prescribed Schedule II, III, or IV 
controlled substances and agreeing to comply with such conditions. (B) If the injured or disabled employee violates any of the conditions of the agreement on more than one (1) occasion, then: (i) The
 employee's right to pain management through the prescription of 
Schedule II, III, or IV controlled substances under this chapter shall 
be terminated and the injured or disabled employee shall no longer be 
entitled under this chapter to the prescription of such substances for 
the management of pain; (ii) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 2012, the violation shall be 
deemed to be misconduct connected with the employee's employment for 
purposes of Â§ 50-6-241(d); and (iii) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 2012, in the event such 
violation occurs prior to a finding that the injured or disabled 
employee is totally disabled as provided in Â§ 50-6-207(4), through 
either a judgment or decree entered by a court following a workers' 
compensation trial or a settlement agreement approved pursuant to Â§ 
50-6-206 [See the Compiler's Notes], the incapacity to work due to lack 
of pain management shall not be considered when determining whether the 
injured employee is entitled to permanent total disability benefits as 
provided in Â§ 50-6-207(4). (C) A
 physician may disclose the employee's violation of the formal written 
agreement on the physician's own initiative. Upon request of the 
employer, a physician shall disclose the employee's violation of the 
formal written agreement as provided in this section. (D) The
 formal written agreement shall include a notice to the employee in 
capitalized, conspicuous lettering on the face of the agreement the 
consequences for violating the terms of the agreement as provided for in
 this subsection (j). (E) (i) If
 an employer terminates an injured or disabled employee's right under 
this chapter to pain management through the prescription of Schedule II,
 III, or IV controlled substances pursuant to alleged violations of the 
formal agreement as provided in subdivision (j)(4)(B), then the employee
 may file a petition for benefit determination. (ii) If
 an employer or insurer alleges that an injured or disabled employee is 
not entitled to reconsideration under Â§ 50-6-241(d) or permanent total 
disability benefits as provided in Â§ 50-6-207(4) because of the 
employee's alleged violations of the formal agreement as provided in 
subdivision (j)(4)(B), then a court shall also determine whether such 
violations occurred. (5) Prescribing
 one (1) or more Schedule II, III, or IV controlled substances for pain 
management treatment of an injured or disabled employee for a period of 
time exceeding ninety (90) days from the initial prescription of any 
such controlled substances is considered to be medical care services for
 the purposes of utilization review as provided in this chapter. The 
department is authorized to impose a fee for the administration of an 
appeal process for utilization review under this subdivision (j)(5) and 
subdivision (j)(3).(k) (1) All permanent impairment ratings shall be assigned by the treating physician or chiropractor. (2) (A) The treating physician or chiropractor shall utilize the applicable edition of the AMA guides as established by this chapter. (B) The
 medical advisory committee shall, within six (6) months of the release 
of a new edition, conduct an evaluation of the new edition, report the 
committee's findings to the administrator and recommend to the 
administrator whether the new edition should be designated for 
application to this chapter. The administrator shall report the 
committee's findings and recommendation to the general assembly. The AMA
 guides, as defined in Â§ 50-6-102, shall remain in effect until a new 
edition is designated by the general assembly. (C) No
 impairment rating, whether contained in a medical record, medical 
report, including a medical report pursuant to Â§ 50-6-235(c), 
deposition, or oral expert opinion testimony shall be accepted during 
alternative dispute resolution proceedings or be admissible into 
evidence at the trial of a workers' compensation claim unless the 
impairment rating is based on the applicable edition of the AMA guides 
or, in cases not covered by the AMA guides, an impairment rating by any 
appropriate method used and accepted by the medical community. (3) The
 treating physician or chiropractor shall assign impairment ratings as a
 percentage of the body as a whole and shall not consider complaints of 
pain in calculating the degree of impairment, notwithstanding allowances
 for pain provided by the applicable edition of the AMA guides as 
established by this chapter. (4) The
 treating physician or chiropractor shall evaluate the employee for 
purposes of assigning an impairment rating and the employee shall attend
 the evaluation. An employee who fails to attend a scheduled evaluation 
without justifiable cause shall be subject to sanctions up to and 
including dismissal of the employee's claim for workers' compensation 
benefits. (5) Scheduling of the 
evaluation shall occur within time limits and according to procedures 
promulgated by the administrator by rule. (6) The
 treating physician or chiropractor shall complete the evaluation and 
submit an impairment rating report, on a form prescribed by the 
administrator, within time limits imposed by the administrator through 
the promulgation of rules. (7) The
 treating physician's or chiropractor's written opinion of the injured 
employee's permanent impairment rating shall be presumed to be the 
accurate impairment rating. This presumption shall be rebuttable by the 
presentation of contrary evidence that satisfies a preponderance of the 
evidence standard.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 25; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a174; Code 1932, Â§ 6875; 
Acts 1941, ch. 90, Â§ 3; 1943, ch. 117, Â§ 1; 1949, ch. 227, Â§ 2; C. Supp.
 1950, Â§ 6875; Acts 1953, ch. 111, Â§ 1; 1957, ch. 234, Â§ 1; 1959, ch. 
62, Â§ 1; 1959, ch. 172, Â§ 1; 1963, ch. 362, Â§ 3; 1967, ch. 313, Â§ 3; 
1971, ch. 134, Â§ 3; 1973, ch. 379, Â§ 4; 1977, ch. 417, Â§ 1; 1978, ch. 
521, Â§ 1; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; Acts 1980, ch. 650, Â§ 1; 
T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1004; Acts 1983, ch. 194, Â§ 1; 1983, ch. 215, Â§
 1; 1983, ch. 276, Â§ 1; 1984, ch. 782, Â§ 1; 1985, ch. 393, Â§ 3; 1986, 
ch. 792, Â§ 1; 1986, ch. 809, Â§ 1; 1988, ch. 525, Â§ 3; 1989, ch. 210, Â§ 
1; 1989, ch. 446, Â§ 1; 1991, ch. 255, Â§ 1; 1996, ch. 790, Â§ 1; 1997, ch.
 198, Â§ 1; 1997, ch. 259, Â§ 1; 1997, ch. 533, Â§ 2; 1998, ch. 1024, Â§ 
21, 22; 1999, ch. 225, Â§ 1; 1999, ch. 294, Â§ 2-5; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 
2000, ch. 990, Â§ 1, 3; 2001, ch. 192, Â§ 9, 10; 2001, ch. 246, Â§ 1; 
2003, ch. 359, Â§ 2; 2004, ch. 433, Â§ 1; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 1, 2, 5, 13, 
24, 46; 2005, ch. 7, Â§ 1; 2005, ch. 107, Â§ 1, 2; 2005, ch. 188, Â§ 1; 
2006, ch. 902, Â§ 1; 2007, ch. 300, Â§ 1; 2007, ch. 522, Â§ 1; 2007, ch. 
543, Â§ 1; 2008, ch. 835, Â§ 1; 2008, ch. 1025, Â§ 2; 2009, ch. 486, Â§ 1; 
2010, ch. 792, Â§ 1; 2010, ch. 858, Â§ 1; 2011, ch. 416, Â§ 7; 2012, ch. 
1100, Â§ 3; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1, 3; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 35-43; 2014, ch. 
903, Â§ 5.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-204.  Medical treatment, attendance and hospitalization -- Release of medical records -- Reports -- Disputes -- Reimbursement or payment of expenses -- Burial expenses -- Physical examinations -- Pain management. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-204. Medical
 treatment, attendance and hospitalization -- Release of medical records
 -- Reports -- Disputes -- Reimbursement or payment of expenses -- 
Burial expenses -- Physical examinations -- Pain management. [Applicable
 to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) (A) The
 employer or the employer's agent shall furnish, free of charge to the 
employee, such medical and surgical treatment, medicine, medical and 
surgical supplies, crutches, artificial members, and other reasonable 
and necessary apparatus, including prescription eyeglasses and eye wear,
 such nursing services or psychological services as ordered by the 
attending physician and hospitalization, including such dental work made
 reasonably necessary by accident as defined in this chapter. (B) No
 medical provider shall charge more than ten dollars ($10.00) for the 
first twenty (20) pages or less, and twenty-five cents (25cent(s)) per 
page for each page after the first twenty (20) pages, for any medical 
reports, medical records or documents pertaining to medical treatment or
 hospitalization of the employee that are furnished pursuant to this 
subsection (a). (2) (A) It
 is the intent of the general assembly that the administration of the 
workers' compensation system proceed in a timely manner and that the 
parties and the department have reasonable access to the employee's 
medical records and medical providers that are pertinent to and 
necessary for the swift resolution of the employee's workers' 
compensation claim. Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, there shall
 be no implied covenant of confidentiality, prohibition against ex parte
 communications or privacy of medical records in the custody of 
authorized treating physicians with respect to case managers, employers,
 or insurance companies, or their attorneys, if these persons comply 
with subdivision (a)(2)(C); provided, however, that the employee, or the
 employee's attorney, shall be provided copies, no later than ten (10) 
days in advance of a deposition of the authorized treating physician 
taken for any purpose or the appearance of the authorized treating 
physician for testimony, of any and all written memorandum or visual or 
recorded materials, including e-mails or other written materials: (i) Provided
 to the employee's authorized treating physician by case managers, 
employers, insurance companies, or their attorneys; or (ii) Received from the employee's authorized treating physician. (B) For
 purposes of subdivision (a)(2)(C), "employer" means the employer, the 
employer's attorney, the employer's insurance carrier or third party 
administrator, a case manager as authorized by Â§ 50-6-123, or any 
utilization review agent as authorized by Â§ 50-6-124 during the 
employee's treatment for the claimed workers' compensation injury. (C) To
 facilitate the timely resolution of workers' compensation claims and to
 facilitate the use of the benefit review process established by this 
chapter, there shall be reasonable access to any employee's medical 
information only by compliance with the following: (i) An
 employee claiming workers' compensation benefits shall provide the 
employer or the division of workers' compensation with a signed, written
 medical authorization form as prescribed by the commissioner; provided,
 the form shall: (a) Be addressed to a specific medical provider authorized by the employer pursuant to this section; (b) Permit
 the release of information through communication, either orally or in 
writing, as authorized under this subdivision (a)(2)(C); and (c) Plainly state in capitalized lettering on the face of the document the following language:    THIS
 MEDICAL AUTHORIZATION FORM ONLY PERMITS THE EMPLOYER OR THE DIVISION OF
 WORKERS' COMPENSATION TO OBTAIN MEDICAL INFORMATION THROUGH ORAL OR 
WRITTEN COMMUNICATION, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, CHARTS, FILES, 
RECORDS, AND REPORTS IN THE POSSESSION OF A MEDICAL PROVIDER AUTHORIZED 
BY THE EMPLOYER PURSUANT TO T.C.A. Â§ 50-6-204 AND A MEDICAL PROVIDER 
THAT IS REIMBURSED BY THE EMPLOYER FOR THE EMPLOYEE'S TREATMENT; (ii) An
 employee claiming workers' compensation benefits, or the employee's 
attorney, shall be entitled to obtain medical information, records, 
opinions, or reports from, or communicate in writing or in person with, 
any medical provider who has treated or provided medical care to the 
employee; provided, that the employee executes and provides the medical 
provider with a properly completed form as described in subdivision 
(a)(2)(C)(i). (iii) Any 
medical provider authorized by the employer pursuant to this section and
 who has treated or provided medical care to an employee claiming 
workers' compensation benefits is permitted to communicate, orally or in
 writing, with the employer, or the employer's attorney, and shall honor
 any request by the employer for medical information, medical records, 
professional opinions, or medical reports pertaining to the claimed 
workers' compensation injury. Oral communication may be utilized, and 
includes, but is not limited to, a telephone conversation or an 
in-person meeting. (iv) If 
an employee or employer files a request for assistance with the 
department, requesting the department to make a determination as to 
whether the claim is compensable or concerning an issue related to 
medical benefits or temporary disability benefits, the department may 
request, orally or in writing, medical information, records, opinions, 
or reports from the medical provider; provided, that: (a) Any response by the medical provider to the department's request shall be in writing; and (b) If
 the department receives documents or written responses to any request 
for information pursuant to this subdivision (a)(2)(C)(iv), then the 
department shall notify the employee, the employer and any attorney 
representing the employee or employer within fourteen (14) days of 
receipt of the document or written response that such persons may review
 or copy the documents or responses; provided, that the requesting party
 shall pay the copying fee authorized by subdivision (a)(1)(B) prior to 
the department providing the requested copies; and (v) If
 the department becomes involved in the appeal of a utilization review 
issue, then the department is authorized to communicate with the medical
 provider involved in the dispute either orally or in writing to permit 
the timely resolution of the issue and shall notify the employee, 
employer or any attorney representing the employee or employer that they
 may review or copy the documents or responses; provided, that the 
requesting party shall pay the copying fee authorized by subdivision 
(a)(1)(B) prior to the department providing the requested copies. (D) No
 relevant information developed in connection with authorized medical 
treatment or an examination provided pursuant to this section for which 
compensation is sought by the employee shall be considered a privileged 
communication, and no medical provider shall incur any liability as a 
result of providing medical information, records, opinions, or reports 
as described in subdivision (a)(2)(C); provided, that the medical 
provider complies with subdivision (a)(2)(C). (3) Whenever
 it appears that the amount of medical benefits to which the employee 
may be entitled under this section will exceed the amount of five 
thousand dollars ($5,000), the insurer shall file written notice with 
the division of workers' compensation, which shall, upon receipt of the 
notice, notify the employer that the claim for medical benefits for the 
employee will exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000). (4) (A) The
 injured employee shall accept the medical benefits afforded under this 
section; provided, that, except as provided in subdivision (a)(4)(B) or 
(a)(4)(C), the employer shall designate a group of three (3) or more 
reputable physicians or surgeons not associated together in practice, if
 available in that community, from which the injured employee shall have
 the privilege of selecting the operating surgeon and the attending 
physician; and provided, further, that the liability of the employer for
 the services rendered the employee shall be limited to the charges that
 are established in the applicable medical fee schedule adopted pursuant
 to this section. (B) If the 
injury is a back injury, then the group of three (3) or more physicians 
or surgeons required to be designated pursuant to subdivision (a)(4)(A) 
shall be expanded to four (4), one (1) of whom must be a doctor of 
chiropractic; provided, that no more than twelve (12) visits to the 
doctor of chiropractic shall be approved per back injury, except upon 
the approval of the employer. The provisions of this subdivision 
(a)(4)(B) shall not apply to state or local government employees and 
shall not apply to workers' compensation self-insurer pools established 
pursuant to Â§ 50-6-405(c)(1). (C) If
 the injury or illness requires the treatment of a physician or surgeon 
who practices orthopedic or neuroscience medicine, then the employer may
 appoint a panel of physicians or surgeons practicing orthopedic or 
neuroscience medicine required to be designated pursuant to subdivision 
(a)(4)(A) consisting of five (5) physicians, with no more than four (4) 
physicians affiliated in practice. (D) In
 circumstances where an employee is offered a treating panel as 
described in subdivision (a)(4)(C), the injured employee shall be 
entitled to have a second opinion on the issue of surgery, impairment, 
and a diagnosis from that same panel of physicians selected by the 
employer. (E) The employer 
shall provide the applicable panel of physicians to the employee in 
writing on a form prescribed by the division, and the employee shall 
document in writing the physician the employee has selected and the 
employee shall sign and date the prescribed form. The employer shall 
provide a copy of the completed form to the employee and shall maintain a
 copy of the completed form in the records of the employer and shall 
produce a copy of the completed form upon request by the division. (5) All
 cases of dispute as to the value of the services shall be determined by
 the tribunal having jurisdiction of the claim of the injured employee 
for compensation. The tribunal may also deny payment of physicians' fees
 and hospital charges for failure to submit the reports as required in 
this section. (6) (A) When
 an injured worker is required by the worker's employer to travel to an 
authorized medical provider or facility located outside a radius of 
fifteen (15) miles from the insured worker's residence or workplace, 
then, upon request, the employee shall be reimbursed for reasonable 
travel expenses. The injured employee's travel reimbursement shall be 
calculated based on a per mile reimbursement rate, as defined in 
subdivision (a)(6)(B), times the total round trip mileage as measured 
from the employee's residence or workplace to the location of the 
medical provider's facility. The definition of community as contemplated
 by this subdivision (a)(6)(A) shall apply only for the purposes of this
 section. (B) The per mile 
reimbursement rate for the injured employee shall be no less than the 
mileage allowance authorized for state employees who have been 
authorized to use personally owned vehicles in the performance of their 
duties. This minimum per mile reimbursement rate shall be based on the 
last published comprehensive travel regulations promulgated by the 
department of finance and administration.(b) (1) Where
 the nature of the injury or occupational disease, as defined in Â§ 
50-6-102, is such that it does not disable the employee but reasonably 
requires medical, surgical, psychological or dental treatment or care, 
medicine, surgery, dental and psychological treatment, medicine, medical
 and surgical supplies, crutches, artificial members, and other 
apparatus shall be furnished by the employer. (2) In
 addition to any attorney fees provided for pursuant to Â§ 50-6-226, a 
court may award attorney fees and reasonable costs to include reasonable
 and necessary court reporter expenses and expert witness fees for 
depositions and trials incurred when the employer fails to furnish 
appropriate medical, surgical and dental treatment or care, medicine, 
medical and surgical supplies, crutches, artificial members and other 
apparatus to an employee provided for pursuant to a settlement or 
judgment under this chapter.(c) In 
case death results from the injury or occupational disease, as defined 
in Â§ 50-6-102, the employer shall, in addition to the medical services, 
etc., referred to in subsections (a) and (b), pay the burial expenses of
 the deceased employee, not exceeding seven thousand five hundred 
dollars ($7,500). If the deceased employee leaves no dependents entitled
 to compensation under this chapter, the employer shall pay to the 
employee's estate the additional benefits provided in Â§ 50-6-209(b)(2) 
and (3), and shall also be liable for the medical and hospital services 
and burial expenses provided for in this section.(d) (1) The
 injured employee must submit to examination by the employer's physician
 at all reasonable times if requested to do so by the employer, but the 
employee shall have the right to have the employee's own physician 
present at the examination, in which case the employee shall be liable 
to the employee's physician for that physician's services. (2) Any
 medical report submitted to the employer based upon the examination, or
 a true copy of the report, shall be furnished by the employer to the 
employee upon request; provided, that the employer may, in the 
employer's discretion, furnish the report to the attorney for the 
employee or to a member of the employee's family. (3) (A) To
 provide uniformity and fairness for all parties in determining the 
degree of anatomical impairment sustained by the employee, a physician, 
chiropractor or medical practitioner who is permitted to give expert 
testimony in a Tennessee court of law and who has provided medical 
treatment to an employee or who has examined or evaluated an employee 
seeking workers' compensation benefits shall utilize the applicable 
edition of the AMA Guides as established in Â§ 50-6-102 or, in cases not 
covered by the AMA Guides, an impairment rating by any appropriate 
method used and accepted by the medical community. (B) No
 anatomical impairment or impairment rating, whether contained in a 
medical record, medical report, including a medical report pursuant to Â§
 50-6-235(c), deposition or oral expert opinion testimony shall be 
accepted during a benefit review conference or be admissible into 
evidence at the trial of a workers' compensation matter unless the 
impairment is based on the applicable edition of the AMA Guides or, in 
cases not covered by the AMA Guides, an impairment rating by any 
appropriate method used and accepted by the medical community. (C) In
 the event of a release of a new edition of the American Medical 
Association Guides to the Evaluation of Permanent Impairment, American 
Medical Association, other than the edition designated in Â§ 50-6-102(2),
 the commissioner shall, within six (6) months of the release of the new
 edition, conduct an evaluation of the new edition and report the 
commissioner's findings and recommendations to the general assembly. The
 AMA guides, as defined in Â§ 50-6-102, shall remain in effect until a 
new edition is designated by the general assembly. (4) The employer shall pay for the services of the physician making the examination at the instance of the employer. (5) When
 a dispute as to the degree of medical impairment exists, either party 
may request an independent medical examiner from the commissioner's 
registry. If the parties are unable to mutually agree on the selection 
of an independent medical examiner from the commissioner's registry, it 
shall be the responsibility of the employer to provide a written request
 to the commissioner for assignment of an independent medical examiner 
with a copy of the notice provided to the other party. Upon receipt of 
the written request, the commissioner shall provide the names of three 
(3) independent medical examiners chosen at random from the registry. No
 physician may serve as an independent medical examiner in a case and 
serve on any panel of providers selected under this section for the 
employer involved in such case. The commissioner shall immediately 
notify the parties by facsimile or e-mail when the list of independent 
medical examiners has been assigned to a matter, but in any event the 
notification shall be made within five (5) business days of the date of 
the request. The employer may strike one (1) name from the list, with 
the rejection made and communicated to the other party by facsimile or 
e-mail no later than the third business day after the date on which 
notification of the list is provided. The employee shall select a 
physician to perform the independent medical examination from the 
remaining physicians on the list. All costs and fees for an independent 
medical examination and report made pursuant to this subdivision (d)(5) 
shall be paid by the employer. The written opinion as to the permanent 
impairment rating given by the independent medical examiner pursuant to 
this subdivision (d)(5) shall be presumed to be the accurate impairment 
rating; provided, however, that this presumption may be rebutted by 
clear and convincing evidence to the contrary. (6) The
 commissioner shall establish by rule, in accordance with the provisions
 of the Uniform Administrative Procedures Act, compiled title 4, chapter
 5, an independent medical examiners registry. The commissioner shall 
establish qualifications for the independent medical examiners, 
including continuing education and peer review requirements, with the 
advice of the Tennessee Medical Association and the advisory council on 
workers' compensation, established by Â§ 50-6-121. The rules established 
shall include, but not be limited to, qualifications and procedures for 
submission of an application for inclusion on the registry, procedures 
for the review and maintenance of the registry, and procedures for 
assignment that ensures that the composition of the panels is random. (7) Whenever
 the nature of the injury is such that specialized medical attention is 
required or indicated and the specialized medical attention is not 
available in the community in which the injured employee resides, the 
injured employee can be required to go, at the request of and at the 
expense of the employer, to the nearest location at which the 
specialized medical attention is available. (8) If
 the injured employee refuses to comply with any reasonable request for 
examination or to accept the medical or specialized medical services 
that the employer is required to furnish under this chapter, the injured
 employee's right to compensation shall be suspended and no compensation
 shall be due and payable while the injured employee continues to 
refuse. (9) For accidents or 
injuries occurring on or after July 1, 2005, in case of a dispute as to 
the injury, other than disputes as to the degree of medical impairment, 
the court may, at the instance of either party or on its own motion, 
appoint a neutral physician of good standing and ability to make an 
examination of the injured person and report the physician's findings to
 the court, the expense of which examination shall be borne equally by 
the parties.(e) In all death claims
 where the cause of death is obscure or is disputed, any interested 
party may require an autopsy, the cost of which is to be borne by the 
party demanding the autopsy.(f) Any
 physician whose services are furnished or paid for by the employer and 
who treats or makes or is present at any examination of an injured 
employee may be required to testify as to any knowledge acquired by the 
physician in the course of the treatment or examination as the treatment
 or examination relates to the injury or disability arising therefrom.(g) (1) If
 an emergency, or on account of the employer's failure or refusal to 
provide the medical care and services required by this law, the injured 
employee or the injured employee's dependents may provide the medical 
care and services, and the cost of the medical care and services, not 
exceeding three hundred dollars ($300), shall be borne by the employer; 
provided, that the pecuniary liability of the employer shall be limited 
to the charges for the service that prevail in the community where the 
services are rendered. (2) (A) If
 an employer denies it is required to provide or refuses to provide 
medical care and treatment, medical services or medical benefits, or 
both, that an employee contends should be provided as a result of a 
judgment or decree entered by a court following a workers' compensation 
trial or as a result of a workers' compensation settlement agreement 
approved by a court or by the commissioner or the commissioner's 
designee pursuant to Â§ 50-6-206, either the employee or the employer, or
 the attorney for the employee or employer, may request the assistance 
of a workers' compensation specialist to determine whether such medical 
care and treatment, medical services or medical benefits, or both, are 
appropriate by filing with the division a form prescribed for that 
purpose by the commissioner. (B) A
 workers' compensation specialist shall have the authority to determine 
whether it is appropriate to order the employer or the employer's 
insurer to provide specific medical care and treatment, medical services
 or medical benefits, or both, to the employee pursuant to a judgment or
 decree entered by a court following a workers' compensation trial or 
pursuant to a workers' compensation settlement agreement approved by a 
court or by the commissioner or the commissioner's designee pursuant to Â§
 50-6-206. The specialist's authority shall include, but is not limited 
to, the authority to order specific medical care and treatment, medical 
services or medical benefits, or both, and any authority granted to a 
specialist by Â§ 50-6-238(a)(3). The specialist's authority shall also 
include any authority granted to a court by subdivision (b)(2), to award
 attorney fees and reasonable costs that include reasonable and 
necessary court reporter expenses and expert witness fees for 
depositions. (C) Upon receipt 
of the request for assistance, the specialist shall review the available
 information and then, after such review, enter an order, on a form 
prescribed by the commissioner, in accord with the following: (i) If
 the employer, or the employer's insurer, agrees it will provide medical
 care and treatment, medical services or medical benefits, or both, 
requested by the employee, the specialist shall issue an agreed order 
specifying the medical care and treatment to be provided by the employer
 and if the employer fails to comply with the agreed order, the 
specialist shall enter an order directing the employer or the employer's
 insurer to provide specific medical care and treatment; and (ii) If
 the employer does not agree to provide the medical care and treatment 
at issue, the specialist shall enter an order as to whether the employer
 shall provide medical care and treatment, medical services or medical 
benefits, or both, to the employee, and if so, the specific medical care
 and treatment, medical services or medical benefits, or both, that 
shall be provided to the employee. (D) If
 either the employee or the employer disagrees with the order entered by
 the specialist pursuant to subdivision (g)(2)(C)(ii), the following 
shall apply: (i) If the 
request for assistance involved a request for medical care or treatment 
pursuant to a court judgment or decree following a trial of the 
underlying workers' compensation claim, then either the employer or the 
employee may appeal the specialist's order to the original court that 
issued the judgment or decree. The parties shall attach a copy of the 
specialist's order to any request for review that is filed in the 
original court; however, any review by the original court shall be de 
novo; and (ii) If the 
request for assistance involved a request for medical care and treatment
 pursuant to a settlement approved by a court of competent jurisdiction 
or by the commissioner or the commissioner's designee pursuant to Â§ 
50-6-206, and either the employee or the employer disagrees with the 
order of the specialist, the aggrieved party may request administrative 
review pursuant to Â§ 50-6-238(d) and all provisions of Â§ 50-6-238(d) 
shall apply to the request. If administrative review is not requested, 
the order of the specialist shall be considered a final order for 
administrative purposes. If administrative review is requested, the 
order of the administrator or administrator's designee shall be 
considered a final order for administrative purposes, if not otherwise 
stated in the order.(h) All 
psychological or psychiatric services available under subdivisions 
(a)(1) and (b)(1) shall be rendered only by psychologists or 
psychiatrists and shall be limited to those ordered upon the referral of
 physicians authorized under subdivision (a)(4).(i) (1) The
 commissioner, in consultation with the medical care and cost 
containment committee and the advisory council on workers' compensation,
 is authorized to establish by rule, in accordance with the Uniform 
Administrative Procedures Act, compiled in title 4, chapter 5, a 
comprehensive medical fee schedule and a related system that includes, 
but is not limited to, procedures for review of charges, enforcement 
procedures and appeal hearings to implement the fee schedule. In 
developing the rules, the commissioner shall strive to assure the 
delivery of quality medical care in workers' compensation cases and 
access by injured workers to primary and specialist care while 
controlling prices and system costs. The medical care fee schedule shall
 be comprehensive in scope and shall address fees of physicians and 
surgeons, hospitals, prescription drugs, and ancillary services provided
 by other health care facilities and providers. The commissioner may 
consider any and all reimbursement systems and methodologies in 
developing the fee schedule, except that, in no event shall the fee 
schedule set forth differing rates for reimbursement or conversion 
factors for reimbursement of physical or occupational therapy services 
based or dependent on whether the services are performed in 
independently-owned facilities or physician-affiliated facilities, and 
shall not otherwise consider the physician ownership in the facility 
providing services. However, differing reimbursement rates may be 
implemented by the commissioner upon the department's presentation of 
state data demonstrating there is a need for differing reimbursement 
rates for physical/occupational therapy services and upon the 
department's holding a public hearing on the issue. (2) The
 commissioner is authorized to retain experts to assist in the 
development of the fee schedule and related system in accordance with 
the contracting rules of the department of finance and administration. (3) The
 commissioner, in consultation with the medical care and cost 
containment committee and the advisory council on workers' compensation,
 shall review the fee schedules adopted pursuant to this section on an 
annual basis and when appropriate the commissioner shall revise the fee 
schedules as necessary. It is the intent of the general assembly that 
this annual review consider, among other factors, the medical consumer 
price index. (4) (A) The 
comprehensive medical fee schedule adopted pursuant to this subsection 
(i) is not intended to prohibit an employer, trust or pool, or insurer 
from negotiating lower fees in its own medical fee agreements. (B) [Deleted by 2010 amendment.] (C) [Deleted by 2010 amendment.] (D) [Deleted by 2010 amendment.](j) (1) If
 a treating physician determines that pain is persisting for an injured 
or disabled employee beyond an expected period for healing, the treating
 physician may either prescribe, if the physician is a qualified 
physician as defined in subdivision (j)(2)(B), or refer, such injured or
 disabled employee for pain management encompassing pharmacological, 
nonpharmacological and other approaches to manage chronic pain. (2) (A) In
 the event that a treating physician refers an injured or disabled 
employee for pain management, the employee is entitled to a panel of 
qualified physicians as provided in subdivision (a)(4) except that, in 
light of the variation in availability of qualified pain management 
resources across the state, if the office of each qualified physician 
listed on the panel is located not more than one hundred seventy-five 
(175) miles from the injured or disabled employee's residence or place 
of employment, then the community requirement of subdivision (a)(4) 
shall not apply for the purposes of pain management. (B) For
 the purposes of the panel required by subdivision (j)(2)(A), "qualified
 physician" means an individual licensed to practice medicine or 
osteopathy in this state and: (i) Board
 certified in anesthesiology, neurological surgery, orthopedic surgery, 
radiology or physical medicine and rehabilitation through the: (a) American Board of Medical Specialties (ABMS); (b) American Osteopathic Association (AOA); or (c) Another organization authorized by the commissioner; (ii) Board certified by an organization listed in subdivision (j)(2)(B)(i)(a)-(c)
 in a specialty other than a specialty listed in subdivision 
(j)(2)(B)(i) and who has completed an ABMS or AOA subspecialty board in 
pain medicine, or completed an Accreditation Council for Graduate 
Medical Education (ACGMA) accredited pain fellowship; or (iii) Serving as a clinical instructor in pain management at an accredited Tennessee medical training program. (3) The
 injured or disabled employee is not entitled to a second opinion on the
 issue of impairment, diagnosis or prescribed treatment relating to pain
 management. However, on no more than one (1) occasion, if the injured 
or disabled employee submits a request in writing to the employer 
stating that the prescribed pain management fails to meet medically 
accepted standards, then the employer shall initiate and participate in 
utilization review as provided in this chapter for the limited purpose 
of determining whether the prescribed pain management meets medically 
accepted standards. (4) (A) As
 a condition of receiving pain management that requires prescribing 
Schedule II, III, or IV controlled substances, the injured or disabled 
employee may sign a formal written agreement with the physician 
prescribing the Schedule II, III, or IV controlled substances 
acknowledging the conditions under which the injured or disabled 
employee may continue to be prescribed Schedule II, III, or IV 
controlled substances and agreeing to comply with such conditions. (B) If the injured or disabled employee violates any of the conditions of the agreement on more than one (1) occasion, then: (i) The
 employee's right to pain management through the prescription of 
Schedule II, III, or IV controlled substances under this chapter shall 
be terminated and the injured or disabled employee shall no longer be 
entitled under this chapter to the prescription of such substances for 
the management of pain; (ii) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 2012, the violation shall be 
deemed to be misconduct connected with the employee's employment for 
purposes of Â§ 50-6-241(d); and (iii) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 2012, in the event such 
violation occurs prior to a finding that the injured or disabled 
employee is totally disabled as provided in Â§ 50-6-207(4), through 
either a judgment or decree entered by a court following a workers' 
compensation trial or a settlement agreement approved pursuant to Â§ 
50-6-206, the incapacity to work due to lack of pain management shall 
not be considered when determining whether the injured employee is 
entitled to permanent total disability benefits as provided in Â§ 
50-6-207(4). (C) A physician 
may disclose the employee's violation of the formal written agreement on
 the physician's own initiative. Upon request of the employer, a 
physician shall disclose the employee's violation of the formal written 
agreement as provided in this section. (D) The
 formal written agreement shall include a notice to the employee in 
capitalized, conspicuous lettering on the face of the agreement the 
consequences for violating the terms of the agreement as provided for in
 this subsection (j). (E) (i) If
 an employer terminates an injured or disabled employee's right under 
this chapter to pain management through the prescription of Schedule II,
 III, or IV controlled substances pursuant to alleged violations of the 
formal agreement as provided in subdivision (j)(4)(B), then the employee
 may either file a: (a) Request
 for assistance pursuant to Â§ 50-6-238, if the benefit review conference
 requirement has not been exhausted, and a workers' compensation 
specialist shall determine whether such violations occurred; or (b) Petition
 in a court of proper jurisdiction as provided in Â§ 50-6-225, if the 
benefit review conference requirement has been exhausted, for a 
determination of whether such violations occurred. (ii) If
 an employer or insurer alleges that an injured or disabled employee is 
not entitled to reconsideration under Â§ 50-6-241(d) or permanent total 
disability benefits as provided in Â§ 50-6-207(4) because of the 
employee's alleged violations of the formal agreement as provided in 
subdivision (j)(4)(B), then a court shall also determine whether such 
violations occurred. (5) Prescribing
 one (1) or more Schedule II, III, or IV controlled substances for pain 
management treatment of an injured or disabled employee for a period of 
time exceeding ninety (90) days from the initial prescription of any 
such controlled substances is considered to be medical care services for
 the purposes of utilization review as provided in this chapter. The 
department is authorized to impose a fee for the administration of an 
appeal process for utilization review under this subdivision (j)(5) and 
subdivision (j)(3).HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 25; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a174; Code 1932, Â§ 6875; 
Acts 1941, ch. 90, Â§ 3; 1943, ch. 117, Â§ 1; 1949, ch. 227, Â§ 2; C. Supp.
 1950, Â§ 6875; Acts 1953, ch. 111, Â§ 1; 1957, ch. 234, Â§ 1; 1959, ch. 
62, Â§ 1; 1959, ch. 172, Â§ 1; 1963, ch. 362, Â§ 3; 1967, ch. 313, Â§ 3; 
1971, ch. 134, Â§ 3; 1973, ch. 379, Â§ 4; 1977, ch. 417, Â§ 1; 1978, ch. 
521, Â§ 1; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; Acts 1980, ch. 650, Â§ 1; 
T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1004; Acts 1983, ch. 194, Â§ 1; 1983, ch. 215, Â§
 1; 1983, ch. 276, Â§ 1; 1984, ch. 782, Â§ 1; 1985, ch. 393, Â§ 3; 1986, 
ch. 792, Â§ 1; 1986, ch. 809, Â§ 1; 1988, ch. 525, Â§ 3; 1989, ch. 210, Â§ 
1; 1989, ch. 446, Â§ 1; 1991, ch. 255, Â§ 1; 1996, ch. 790, Â§ 1; 1997, ch.
 198, Â§ 1; 1997, ch. 259, Â§ 1; 1997, ch. 533, Â§ 2; 1998, ch. 1024, Â§ 
21, 22; 1999, ch. 225, Â§ 1; 1999, ch. 294, Â§ 2-5; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 
2000, ch. 990, Â§ 1, 3; 2001, ch. 192, Â§ 9, 10; 2001, ch. 246, Â§ 1; 
2003, ch. 359, Â§ 2; 2004, ch. 433, Â§ 1; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 1, 2, 5, 13, 
24, 46; 2005, ch. 7, Â§ 1; 2005, ch. 107, Â§ 1, 2; 2005, ch. 188, Â§ 1; 
2006, ch. 902, Â§ 1; 2007, ch. 300, Â§ 1; 2007, ch. 522, Â§ 1; 2007, ch. 
543, Â§ 1; 2008, ch. 835, Â§ 1; 2008, ch. 1025, Â§ 2; 2009, ch. 486, Â§ 1; 
2010, ch. 792, Â§ 1; 2010, ch. 858, Â§ 1; 2011, ch. 416, Â§ 7; 2012, ch. 
1100, Â§ 3.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-205.  Period of compensation -- Maximum amount -- Notice of payment, change or nonpayment -- Records -- Notice of controversy.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-205. Period
 of compensation -- Maximum amount -- Notice of payment, change or 
nonpayment -- Records -- Notice of controversy. [Applicable to injuries
 occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) No
 compensation shall be allowed for the first seven (7) days of 
disability resulting from the injury, excluding the day of injury, 
except the benefits provided for in Â§ 50-6-204, but if disability 
extends beyond that period, compensation shall commence with the eighth 
day after the injury. In the event, however, that the disability from 
the injury exists for a period as long as fourteen (14) days, then 
compensation shall be allowed beginning with the first day after the 
injury.(b) (1) The total 
amount of compensation payable under this part shall not exceed the 
maximum total benefit, as that benefit is defined in Â§ 50-6-102, in any 
case, exclusive of travel reimbursement, medical, hospital and funeral 
benefits. (2) Compensation shall 
be paid promptly. The first payment shall be due and payable within 
fifteen (15) days after the employer has knowledge of any disability or 
death, and thereafter compensation shall be paid to the employee or the 
employee's dependents semimonthly. Evidence of the initiation or denial 
of the compensation is inadmissible in a subsequent proceeding 
concerning the issue of the compensability of injury. (3) (A) In
 addition to any other penalty provided by law, if an employer, trust or
 pool or an employer's insurer fails to pay, or untimely pays, temporary
 disability benefits within twenty (20) days after the employer has 
knowledge of any disability that would qualify for benefits under this 
chapter, a workers' compensation judge shall have the authority to 
assess against the employer, trust or pool or the employer's insurer a 
civil penalty in addition to the temporary disability benefits that are 
due to the employee. The penalty, if assessed, shall be in an amount 
equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the temporary disability benefits 
that were not paid in accordance with this subsection (b). Furthermore, 
the penalty may be assessed as to all temporary disability benefits that
 are determined not to be paid in compliance with this subsection (b). (B) Prior
 to the assessment of any civil penalty, the judge shall issue a written
 request to the employer or insurance carrier to provide documentation 
as to why the civil penalty should not be assessed. (C) If
 the judge determines the employer or insurer was not in compliance with
 this subsection (b), the judge shall issue a written order that 
assesses the penalty in a specific dollar amount to be paid directly to 
the employee. If the employer or insurer fails to comply with the order 
within fifteen (15) calendar days of that order's becoming final, the 
employer or insurer shall be subject to penalties as set forth in Â§ 
50-6-238(d). (D) In any civil 
action filed pursuant to this chapter, the court shall have the 
authority to assess penalties as provided in this subdivision (b)(3).(c) (1) Upon
 making the first payment of benefits, and upon stopping or changing the
 benefits for any cause other than final settlement, or upon denying a 
claim after proper investigation, the employer's insurance carrier or 
the employer, if self-insured, shall immediately notify the 
administrator, on a form prescribed by the administrator, that the 
payment of income benefits has begun or has been stopped or changed. (2) [Deleted by 2013 amendment, effective July 1, 2014.](d) (1) If
 payments have been made without an award, and the employer subsequently
 elects to controvert the employer's liability, notice of controversy 
shall be filed with the administrator within fifteen (15) days of the 
due date of the first omitted payment. (2) In
 such cases, the prior payment of compensation shall not be considered a
 binding determination of the obligations of the employer as to future 
compensation payments. (3) Likewise,
 the acceptance of compensation by the employee shall not be considered a
 binding determination of the obligations of the employer as to future 
compensation payments; nor shall the acceptance of compensation by the 
employee be considered a binding determination of the employee's rights.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 26; 1923, ch. 84, Â§ 3; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a175; 
Code 1932, Â§ 6876; Acts 1941, ch. 90, Â§ 4; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6876; Acts 
1955, ch. 182, Â§ 1; 1963, ch. 362, Â§ 1; 1967, ch. 313, Â§ 2; 1969, ch. 
196, Â§ 2; 1971, ch. 134, Â§ 2; 1972, ch. 699, Â§ 2; 1973, ch. 379, Â§ 5; 
1974, ch. 617, Â§ 1; 1975, ch. 86, Â§ 1; 1977, ch. 354, Â§ 1; 1978, ch. 
532, Â§ 1; 1979, ch. 365, Â§ 1; 1980, ch. 607, Â§ 1; 1981, ch. 333, Â§ 1; 
1982, ch. 880, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1005; Acts 1983, ch. 215, Â§
 2; 1985, ch. 393, Â§ 4, 20; 1996, ch. 790, Â§ 2; 1997, ch. 533, Â§ 3; 
1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 6; 2007, ch. 330, Â§ 1; 2013, ch. 
289, Â§ 44, 45.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-205.  Period of compensation -- Maximum amount -- Notice of payment, change or nonpayment -- Records -- Notice of controversy.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] 
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-205. Period
 of compensation -- Maximum amount -- Notice of payment, change or 
nonpayment -- Records -- Notice of controversy. [Applicable to injuries
 occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]  (a) No
 compensation shall be allowed for the first seven (7) days of 
disability resulting from the injury, excluding the day of injury, 
except the benefits provided for in Â§ 50-6-204, but if disability 
extends beyond that period, compensation shall commence with the eighth 
day after the injury. In the event, however, that the disability from 
the injury exists for a period as long as fourteen (14) days, then 
compensation shall be allowed beginning with the first day after the 
injury.(b) (1) The total 
amount of compensation payable under this part shall not exceed the 
maximum total benefit, as that benefit is defined in Â§ 50-6-102, in any 
case, exclusive of travel reimbursement, medical, hospital and funeral 
benefits. (2) Compensation shall 
be paid promptly. The first payment shall be due and payable within 
fifteen (15) days after the employer has knowledge of any disability or 
death, and thereafter compensation shall be paid to the employee or the 
employee's dependents semimonthly. Evidence of the initiation or denial 
of the compensation is inadmissible in a subsequent proceeding 
concerning the issue of the compensability of injury. (3) (A) In
 addition to any other penalty provided by law, if an employer, trust or
 pool or an employer's insurer fails to pay, or untimely pays, temporary
 disability benefits within twenty (20) days after the employer has 
knowledge of any disability that would qualify for benefits under this 
chapter, a workers' compensation specialist shall have the authority to 
assess against the employer, trust or pool or the employer's insurer a 
civil penalty in addition to the temporary disability benefits that are 
due to the employee. The penalty, if assessed, shall be in an amount 
equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the temporary disability benefits 
that were not paid in accordance with this subsection (b). Furthermore, 
the penalty may be assessed as to all temporary disability benefits that
 are determined not to be paid in compliance with this subsection (b). (B) Prior
 to the assessment of any civil penalty, the specialist shall issue a 
written request to the employer or insurance carrier to provide 
documentation as to why the civil penalty should not be assessed. (C) If
 the specialist determines the employer or insurer was not in compliance
 with this subsection (b), the specialist shall issue a written order 
that assesses the penalty in a specific dollar amount to be paid 
directly to the employee. If the employer or insurer fails to comply 
with the order within fifteen (15) calendar days of that order's 
becoming final, the employer or insurer shall be subject to penalties as
 set forth in Â§ 50-6-238(d). (D) In
 any civil action filed pursuant to this chapter, the court shall have 
the authority to assess penalties as provided in this subdivision 
(b)(3).(c) (1) Upon making 
the first payment of benefits, and upon stopping or changing the 
benefits for any cause other than final settlement, or upon denying a 
claim after proper investigation, the employer's insurance carrier or 
the employer, if self-insured, shall immediately notify the 
administrator, on a form prescribed by the administrator, that the 
payment of income benefits has begun or has been stopped or changed. (2) Failure
 to file the notice shall be a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, 
be punishable by a fine of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00).(d) (1) If
 payments have been made without an award, and the employer subsequently
 elects to controvert the employer's liability, notice of controversy 
shall be filed with the administrator within fifteen (15) days of the 
due date of the first omitted payment. (2) In
 such cases, the prior payment of compensation shall not be considered a
 binding determination of the obligations of the employer as to future 
compensation payments. (3) Likewise,
 the acceptance of compensation by the employee shall not be considered a
 binding determination of the obligations of the employer as to future 
compensation payments; nor shall the acceptance of compensation by the 
employee be considered a binding determination of the employee's rights.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 26; 1923, ch. 84, Â§ 3; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a175; 
Code 1932, Â§ 6876; Acts 1941, ch. 90, Â§ 4; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6876; Acts 
1955, ch. 182, Â§ 1; 1963, ch. 362, Â§ 1; 1967, ch. 313, Â§ 2; 1969, ch. 
196, Â§ 2; 1971, ch. 134, Â§ 2; 1972, ch. 699, Â§ 2; 1973, ch. 379, Â§ 5; 
1974, ch. 617, Â§ 1; 1975, ch. 86, Â§ 1; 1977, ch. 354, Â§ 1; 1978, ch. 
532, Â§ 1; 1979, ch. 365, Â§ 1; 1980, ch. 607, Â§ 1; 1981, ch. 333, Â§ 1; 
1982, ch. 880, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1005; Acts 1983, ch. 215, Â§
 2; 1985, ch. 393, Â§ 4, 20; 1996, ch. 790, Â§ 2; 1997, ch. 533, Â§ 3; 
1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 6; 2007, ch. 330, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-206.  Settlements.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-206. Settlements. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) The
 interested parties shall have the right to settle all matters of 
compensation between themselves, but all settlements, before the 
settlements are binding on either party, shall be reduced to writing and
 shall be approved by the judge of the circuit court or chancery court 
of the county where the claim for compensation is entitled to be made. 
It shall be the duty of the judge of the circuit court or chancery court
 to whom any proposed settlement is presented for approval under this 
chapter, to examine the proposed settlement to determine whether the 
employee is receiving, substantially, the benefits provided by this 
chapter. To this end, the judge may call and examine witnesses. Upon the
 settlement's being approved, judgment shall be rendered on the 
settlement by the court and duly entered by the clerk. The cost of the 
proceeding shall be borne by the employer. Certified copies of all 
papers, orders, judgments and decrees filed or entered by the court upon
 the approval of such settlement, together with a copy of the settlement
 agreement, shall be forwarded to the division of workers' compensation 
by the employer within ten (10) days after the entry of the judgment. If
 it appears that any settlement approved by the court does not secure to
 the employee in a substantial manner the benefits of this chapter, the 
settlement may, in the discretion of the trial judge, be set aside at 
any time within thirty (30) days after the receipt of the papers by the 
division, upon the application of the employee or the administrator of 
the division in the employee's behalf, whether the court has adjourned 
in the meantime or not, notwithstanding Â§ 50-6-230 to the contrary. In 
all cases where the settlement proceedings or any other court 
proceedings for workers' compensation under this chapter involve a 
subsequent injury wherein the employee would be entitled to receive or 
is claiming compensation from the second injury fund provided for in Â§ 
50-6-208, the administrator shall be made a party defendant to the 
proceedings in an action filed by either the employer or the injured 
employee and an attorney representing the department under the 
supervision of the attorney general and reporter shall represent the 
administrator in the proceeding. The court, by its decree, shall 
determine the right of the claimant to receive compensation from the 
fund, and the clerk of the court shall furnish to the administrator a 
certified copy of the decree, the cost of which shall be added to the 
costs of the proceedings and shall be paid as other costs are adjudged 
in the case. (2) Notwithstanding 
any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, the parties shall 
not be permitted to compromise and settle the issue of future medical 
benefits to which an employee is entitled pursuant to this chapter, 
except in accordance with the following: (A) Nothing
 in this section shall be construed to prohibit the parties from 
compromising and settling at any time the issue of future medical 
benefits; provided, that the settlement agreement is approved by a trial
 court, or the commissioner or the commissioner's designee, and includes
 a provision confirming that the claimant has been advised of the 
consequences of the settlement, if any, with respect to Medicare and 
TennCare benefits and liabilities. (B) [Deleted by 2011 amendment.] (C) Notwithstanding
 any other provision of this chapter or this subdivision (a)(2), an 
employee who is determined to be permanently totally disabled shall not 
be allowed to compromise and settle the employee's rights to future 
medical benefits. (D) [Deleted by 2011 amendment.](b) Notwithstanding
 any other provision of this section, if there is a dispute between the 
parties as to whether a claim is compensable, or as to the amount of 
compensation due, the parties may settle the matter without regard to 
whether the employee is receiving substantially the benefits provided by
 this chapter; provided, that the settlement is determined by the court,
 or the commissioner or the commissioner's designee, to be in the best 
interest of the employee.(c) (1) The commissioner or the commissioner's designee may approve a proposed settlement among the parties if: (A) The settlement agreement has been signed by the parties; (B) The
 commissioner or the commissioner's designee has determined that the 
employee is receiving, substantially, the benefits provided by this 
chapter, or, in cases subject to subsection (b), in the best interest of
 the employee; and (C) If the 
employee was not represented by counsel at a benefit review conference, 
the settlement agreement shall be reviewed by a specialist within the 
department who was not associated with the employee's case. (2) Among
 the parties, a settlement approved by the commissioner pursuant to this
 subsection (c) shall be entitled to the same standing as a judgment of a
 court of record for purposes of Â§ 50-6-230 and all other purposes. A 
settlement approved by the commissioner may be appealed as a final order
 pursuant to the Uniform Administrative Procedures Act, compiled in 
title 4, chapter 5. (3) (A) For
 settlements in which the employee is represented by counsel, the 
parties shall seek the approval of the department as provided in this 
subsection (c), unless the parties agree to seek the approval of a court
 pursuant to subsection (a). (B) For
 settlements in which the employee is not represented by counsel, the 
parties shall seek the approval of a court pursuant to subsection (a), 
unless the parties agree to seek approval from the department pursuant 
to this subsection (c). (4) The 
commissioner or the commissioner's designee shall approve or reject 
settlements submitted to the department within three (3) business days 
of receiving the settlement. The review and approval or disapproval 
shall be provided in the regional offices of the division or other 
location agreed to by the parties and the division. If the commissioner 
or the designee does not approve or reject the settlement within three 
(3) business days, either party may submit a copy of the signed 
settlement to any court with jurisdiction to hear the underlying 
workers' compensation claim. If the injured employee is not represented 
by counsel, the review shall be conducted in person. (5) In
 approving settlements pursuant to this subsection (c), the commissioner
 or the commissioner's designee shall consider all pertinent factors, 
including degree of medical impairment, the employee's age, education, 
skills and training, local job opportunities and capacity to work at 
types of employment available in the claimant's disabled condition. If 
the injured employee is not represented by counsel, then the 
commissioner or the commissioner's designee shall thoroughly inform the 
employee of the scope of benefits available under this chapter, the 
employee's rights and the procedures necessary to protect those rights.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 27; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a176; Code 1932, Â§ 6877; 
Acts 1945, ch. 149, Â§ 2; 1947, ch. 139, Â§ 5; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6877; Acts
 1969, ch. 123, Â§ 1; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; Acts 1980, ch. 
479, Â§ 1; 1981, ch. 488, Â§ 4; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1006; Acts 1983, 
ch. 217, Â§ 1, 2; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 14; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2002, ch. 
695, Â§ 4; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 3, 4, 48; 2011, ch. 416, Â§ 3-6.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation---> 50-6-207.  Schedule of compensation.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-207. Schedule of compensation. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] The following is the schedule of compensation to be allowed employees under this chapter: (1) Temporary Total Disability. (A) For
 injury producing temporary total disability, sixty-six and two thirds 
percent (66 2/3%) of the average weekly wages as defined in this 
chapter, subject to the maximum weekly benefit and minimum weekly 
benefit; provided, that if the employee's average weekly wages are equal
 to or greater than the minimum weekly benefit, the employee shall 
receive not less than the minimum weekly benefit; and provided, further,
 that if the employee's average weekly wages are less than the minimum 
weekly benefit, the employee shall receive the full amount of the 
employee's average weekly wages, but in no event shall the compensation 
paid be less than the minimum weekly benefit. Where a fractional week of
 temporary total disability is involved, the compensation for each day 
shall be one seventh (1/7) of the amount due for a full week; (B) (i) An
 employer may choose to continue to compensate an injured employee at 
the employee's regular wages or salary during the employee's period of 
temporary total and temporary partial disability. The payments shall not
 result in an employee's receiving less than the employee would 
otherwise receive for temporary disability benefits under this chapter; 
however, a court or the department has no authority to require an 
employer to pay any temporary disability benefits required by 
subdivision (1)(A), in addition to the employee's regular wages or 
salary; (ii) When an 
employee receives payments under subdivision (1)(B)(i) and the 
employee's claim for compensation under this chapter is determined by a 
court or settlement to be compensable, the employer shall be given 
credit for the payments. The credit shall be no more than the employee 
would have been otherwise paid under subdivision (1)(A), and any amount 
paid beyond the amount that would have otherwise been paid under 
subdivision (1)(A) shall not be credited against any award for permanent
 disability; (C) Any person 
who has drawn unemployment compensation benefits and who subsequently 
receives compensation for temporary disability benefits under a workers'
 compensation law with respect to the same period shall be required to 
repay the unemployment compensation benefits; provided, that the amount 
to be repaid does not exceed the amount of temporary disability 
benefits; (D) An employee 
claiming a mental injury, as defined by Â§ 50-6-102, occurring on or 
after July 1, 2009, shall be conclusively presumed to be at maximum 
medical improvement upon the earliest occurrence of the following: (i) At the time the treating psychiatrist concludes the employee has reached maximum medical improvement; or (ii) [Deleted by 2013 amendment, effective July 1, 2014.] (iii) One
 hundred four (104) weeks after the date of injury in the case of mental
 injuries where there is no underlying physical injury; (E) An
 employee claiming an injury as defined in Â§ 50-6-102, when the date of 
injury is on or after July 1, 2014, shall be conclusively presumed to be
 at maximum medical improvement when the treating physician ends all 
active medical treatment and the only care provided is for the treatment
 of pain or for a mental injury that arose primarily out of a 
compensable physical injury. The employer shall be given credit against 
an award of permanent disability for any amount of temporary total 
disability benefits paid to the employee after the date that the 
employee attains maximum medical improvement as determined by a workers'
 compensation judge. (2) Temporary Partial Disability. (A) In
 all cases of temporary partial disability, the compensation shall be 
sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the difference between the
 average weekly wage of the worker at the time of the injury and the 
wage the worker is able to earn in the worker's partially disabled 
condition. This compensation shall be paid during the period of the 
disability, not, however, beyond four hundred fifty (450) weeks, payment
 to be made at the intervals when the wage was payable, as nearly as may
 be, and subject to the same maximum, as stated in subdivision (1). In 
no event shall the compensation be less than the minimum weekly benefit; (B) In
 all cases of temporary partial disability for claims with a date of 
injury on or after July 1, 2014, the compensation shall be sixty-six and
 two-thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the difference between the average 
weekly wage of the worker at the time of the injury and the wage the 
worker is able to earn in the worker's partially disabled condition. 
This compensation shall be paid during the period of the disability, but
 payment shall not extend beyond four hundred fifty (450) weeks. Payment
 shall be made at the intervals when the wage was payable, as nearly as 
may be, and subject to the same maximum, as stated in subdivision (1). 
In no event shall the compensation be less than the minimum weekly 
benefit; (C) In any case when a
 dispute exists over the date of the employee's attainment of maximum 
medical improvement, the employer shall be given credit against an award
 of permanent disability for any amount of temporary partial disability 
paid to the employee after the date on which the workers' compensation 
judge determines maximum medical improvement. (3) Permanent Partial Disability. (A) In
 case of disability partial in character but adjudged to be permanent, 
at the time the injured employee reaches maximum medical improvement the
 injured employee shall be paid sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 
2/3%) of the employee's average weekly wages for the period of 
compensation, which shall be determined by multiplying the employee's 
impairment rating by four hundred fifty (450) weeks. The injured 
employee shall receive these benefits, in addition to the benefits 
provided in subdivisions (1) and (2) and those provided by Â§ 50-6-204, 
whether the employee has returned to work or not; and (B) If
 at the time the period of compensation provided by subdivision (3)(A) 
ends, the employee has not returned to work with any employer or has 
returned to work and is receiving wages or a salary that is less than 
one hundred percent (100%) of the wages or salary the employee received 
from his pre-injury employer on the date of injury, the injured employee
 may file a claim for increased benefits. If appropriate, the injured 
employee's award as determined under subdivision (3)(A) shall be 
increased by multiplying the award by a factor of one and thirty-five 
one hundredths (1.35); in addition, the injured employee's award shall 
be further increased by multiplying the award by the product of the 
following factors, if applicable: (i) Education:
 One and forty-five one hundredths (1.45), if the employee lacks a high 
school diploma or general equivalency diploma; (ii) Age:
 One and two tenths (1.2), if the employee was more than forty (40) 
years of age at the time the period of compensation ends; and (iii) Unemployment
 rate: One and three tenths (1.3), if the unemployment rate, in the 
Tennessee county where the employee was employed by the employer on the 
date of the workers' compensation injury, was at least two (2) 
percentage points greater than the yearly average unemployment rate in 
Tennessee according to the yearly average unemployment rate compiled by 
the department for the year immediately prior to the expiration of the 
period of compensation. (C) In
 determining the employee's increased award pursuant to subdivision 
(3)(B), the employer shall be given credit for payment of the original 
award of benefits as determined under subdivision (3)(A) against the 
increased award. (D) Any 
employee may file a claim for increased benefits under subdivision 
(3)(B) by filing a new petition for benefit determination, on a form 
prescribed by the administrator, with the division no more than one (1) 
year after the period of compensation provided in subdivision (3)(A) 
ends. Any claim for increased benefits under this subdivision (3)(D) 
shall be forever barred, unless the employee files a new petition for 
benefit determination with the division within one (1) year after the 
period of compensation for the subject injury ends. Under no 
circumstances shall an employee be entitled to additional benefits when: (i) The
 employee's loss of employment is due to the employee's voluntary 
resignation or retirement; provided, however, that the resignation or 
retirement does not result from the work-related disability; (ii) The employee's loss of employment is due to the employee's misconduct connected with the employee's employment; or (iii) The
 employee remains employed but received a reduction in salary, wages, or
 hours that is concurrent with a reduction in salary, wages or reduction
 in hours that affected at least fifty percent (50%) of all hourly 
employees operating at or out of the same location. (E) Nothing
 in this subdivision (3) shall prohibit the employer and employee from 
settling the issue of additional benefits at any time after the employee
 reaches maximum medical improvement. Any settlement or award of 
additional permanent partial disability benefits pursuant to this 
subdivision (3) shall give the employer credit for prior permanent 
partial disability benefits paid to the employee. (F) Subdivision
 (3)(B) shall not apply to injuries sustained by an employee who is not 
eligible or authorized to work in the United States under federal 
immigration laws. (G) The 
total amount of compensation payable in this subdivision (3) shall not 
exceed the maximum total benefit. The payment of temporary total 
disability benefits or temporary partial disability benefits shall not 
be included in calculating the maximum total benefit. (H) All
 cases of permanent partial disability shall be apportioned to the body 
as a whole, which shall have a value of four hundred fifty (450) weeks, 
and there shall be paid compensation to the injured employee for the 
proportionate loss of use of the body as a whole resulting from the 
injury. If an employee has previously sustained an injury compensable 
under this section and has been awarded benefits for that injury, the 
injured employee shall be paid compensation for the period of temporary 
total disability or temporary partial disability and only for the degree
 of permanent disability that results from the subsequent injury. (4) Permanent Total Disability. (A) (i) For
 permanent total disability as defined in subdivision (4)(B), sixty-six 
and two thirds percent (662/3%) of the wages received at the time of the
 injury, subject to the maximum weekly benefit and minimum weekly 
benefit; provided, that if the employee's average weekly wages are equal
 to or greater than the minimum weekly benefit, the employee shall 
receive not less than the minimum weekly benefit; provided, further, 
that if the employee's average weekly wages are less than the minimum 
weekly benefit, the employee shall receive the full amount of the 
employee's average weekly wages, but in no event shall the compensation 
paid be less than the minimum weekly benefit. This compensation shall be
 paid during the period of the permanent total disability until the 
employee is, by age, eligible for full benefits in the Old Age Insurance
 Benefit Program under the Social Security Act, compiled in 42 U.S.C. Â§ 
401 et seq.; provided, that with respect to disabilities resulting from 
injuries that occur less than five (5) years before the date when the 
employee is eligible for full benefits in the Old Age Insurance Benefit 
Program as referenced previously in this subdivision (4)(A)(i) or after 
the employee is eligible for such benefits, permanent total disability 
benefits are payable for a period of two hundred sixty (260) weeks. The 
compensation payments shall be reduced by the amount of any old age 
insurance benefit payments attributable to employer contributions that 
the employee may receive under title 42, chapter 7, title II of the 
Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. Â§ 401 et seq. Notwithstanding any statute
 or court decision to the contrary, the statutory social security offset
 provided by this section shall have no applicability to death benefits 
awarded to a deceased worker's dependents pursuant to this chapter; (ii) Notwithstanding
 any other law to the contrary and notwithstanding any agreement of the 
parties to the contrary, permanent total disability payments shall not 
be commuted to a lump sum, except in accordance with the following: (a) Benefits
 may be commuted to a lump sum to pay only the employee's attorney's 
fees and litigation expenses and to pay pre-injury obligations in 
arrears; (b) The commuted portion of an award shall not exceed the value of one hundred (100) weeks of the employee's benefits; (c) After
 the total amount of the commuted lump sum is determined, the amount of 
the weekly disability benefit shall be recalculated to distribute the 
total remaining permanent total benefits in equal weekly installments 
beginning with the date of entry of the order and terminating on the 
date the employee's disability benefits terminate pursuant to 
subdivision (4)(A)(i); (iii) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 2014, attorneys' fees in 
contested cases of permanent disability shall be calculated upon the 
first four hundred fifty (450) weeks of disability only; (iv) In
 case an employee who is permanently and totally disabled becomes a 
resident of a public institution, and provided further, that if no 
person or persons are wholly dependent upon the employee, then the 
amounts falling due during the lifetime of the employee shall be paid to
 the employee or to the employee's guardian or conservator, if 
adjudicated incompetent, to be spent for the employee's benefit; such 
payments to cease upon the death of the employee; (B) When
 an injury not otherwise specifically provided for in this chapter 
totally incapacitates the employee from working at an occupation that 
brings the employee an income, the employee shall be considered totally 
disabled and for such disability compensation shall be paid as provided 
in subdivision (4)(A); provided, that the total amount of compensation 
payable under this subdivision (4)(B) shall not exceed the maximum total
 benefit, exclusive of medical and hospital benefits; (C) (i) If
 an employee is determined, by trial or settlement, to be permanently 
totally disabled, the employer, insurer or the department, in the event 
the second injury fund is involved, may have the employee examined, at 
the expense of the requesting entity, from time to time, subject to the 
conditions outlined in this section, and may seek reconsideration of the
 issue of permanent total disability as provided in this subdivision 
(4)(C); (ii) The request 
for the examination of the employee may not be made until twenty-four 
(24) months have elapsed following the entry of a final order in which 
it is determined that the employee is permanently totally disabled. Any 
request for an examination is subject to considerations of 
reasonableness in regard to notice prior to examination, place of 
examination and length of examination; (iii) A
 request for an examination may not be made more often than once every 
twenty-four (24) months. The procedure for this examination shall be as 
follows: (a) The 
requesting entity shall first make informal contact with the employee, 
either by letter or by telephone, to attempt to schedule an appointment 
with a physician for examination at a mutually agreeable time and place.
 It is the intent of the general assembly that the requesting entity 
make a good faith effort to reach a mutual agreement for examination, 
recognizing the inherently intrusive nature of a request for 
examination; (b) If, 
after a reasonable period of time, not to exceed thirty (30) days, 
mutual agreement is not reached, the requesting entity shall send the 
employee written notice of demand for examination by certified mail, 
return receipt requested, on a form provided by the department. The form
 shall clearly inform the employee of the following: the date, time and 
place of the examination; the name of the examining physician; the 
employee's obligations; any pertinent time limitations; the employee's 
rights; and any consequences of the employee's failure to submit to the 
examination. The examination shall be scheduled to take place within 
thirty (30) days of the date on the notice; (c) After
 receipt of the notice of demand for examination, the employee shall 
either submit to the examination at the time and place identified in the
 notice form, or, within thirty (30) days from the date of the notice, 
the employee shall schedule an appointment for a different date and time
 conducted by the same physician, and this examination shall be 
completed no later than ninety (90) days from the date of the notice; (d) In
 the event the employee fails to submit to the examination at the time 
and place identified in the notice form and fails to schedule, within 
thirty (30) days from the date of the notice, an alternative examination
 date, as provided in subdivision (4)(C)(iii)(c), then the employee's periodic benefits shall be suspended for a period of thirty (30) days; (e) In the event the employee schedules an alternative date for the examination as provided in subdivision (4)(C)(iii)(c),
 and fails to submit to the examination within the ninety (90) day 
period, then the employee's periodic benefits shall be suspended for a 
period of thirty (30) days beginning at the end of the ninety (90) day 
period within which the alternatively scheduled examination was to be 
completed; (f) If the 
employee submits to an examination within any period of suspension of 
benefits, then within fourteen (14) days of the submission, periodic 
benefits shall be restored and any periodic benefits that were withheld 
during any period of suspension of benefits shall be remitted to the 
employee; (g) Within ten (10) days of the date on which periodic benefits are suspended pursuant to either subdivision (4)(C)(iii)(d) or (4)(C)(iii)(e),
 the entity suspending the periodic benefits shall notify the 
department, in writing, that periodic benefits have been suspended and 
the date on which the periodic benefits were suspended and shall provide
 the department a copy of the original notice of demand for examination 
sent to the employee; and (h) After the department receives notice of suspension of benefits pursuant to either subdivision (4)(C)(iii)(d) or (4)(C)(iii)(e),
 the department shall contact the employee and for a period of thirty 
(30) days assist the employee to schedule an examination to be conducted
 by the physician named in the notice. After the thirty (30) day 
assistance period has elapsed, if the employee has not submitted to an 
examination, the department shall authorize the employer, insurer or 
department to suspend periodic benefits for a period of thirty (30) 
days. At the conclusion of each thirty (30) day suspension period, 
periodic benefits shall be restored. After the restoration of periodic 
benefits, the department shall, in thirty (30) day cycles, continue to 
assist the employee to schedule the examination, to be followed by 
thirty (30) day cycles of suspension of benefits until the examination 
of the employee is completed. If, at any time during any period of 
suspension of periodic benefits, the employee submits to an examination,
 then within fourteen (14) days of notice of the examination having been
 conducted, periodic benefits shall be restored and any periodic 
benefits that were withheld during any period of suspension shall be 
remitted to the employee; (iv) Subsequent
 to an examination as described in this subdivision (4)(C), the 
employer, insurer or department may request a reconsideration of the 
issue of whether the employee continues to be permanently totally 
disabled based on any changes in the employee's circumstances that have 
occurred since the time of the initial settlement or trial; (v) Prior
 to filing any request for reconsideration, the employer, insurer or 
department shall file a petition for benefit determination and 
participate in alternative dispute resolution pursuant to Â§ 50-6-236. In
 the event the parties are unable to reach an agreement through 
alternative dispute resolution, the workers' compensation mediator shall
 issue a dispute certification notice and the employer, insurer or 
department may file a request for a hearing, as provided in Â§ 50-6-239, 
to determine the issue of reconsideration. (vi) In
 the event a reconsideration request is filed pursuant to this section, 
the only remedy available to the employer, insurer or department is the 
modification or termination of future periodic disability benefits; (vii) In
 the event the employer, insurer or department files a request for 
reconsideration or cause of action under this subdivision (4)(C) and the
 court does not terminate the employee's future periodic disability 
benefits, the employee shall be entitled to an award of reasonable 
attorney fees, court costs and reasonable and necessary expenses 
incurred by the employee in responding to the request for 
reconsideration upon application to and approval by the court. In 
determining what attorney fees shall be awarded under this subdivision 
(4)(C), the court shall make specific findings with respect to the 
following criteria: (a) The
 time and labor required, the novelty and difficulty of the questions 
involved in responding to the request for reconsideration, and the skill
 requisite to perform the legal service properly; (b) The fee customarily charged in the locality or by the attorney for similar legal services; (c) The amount involved and the results obtained; (d) The time limitations imposed by the client or by the circumstances; and (e) The experience, reputation, and ability of the lawyer or lawyers performing the services; (D) (i) The
 employer, insurer or department, in the event the second injury fund is
 involved, shall notify the department, on a form to be developed by the
 department, of the entry of a final order adjudging an employee to be 
permanently totally disabled. The form shall be submitted to the 
department within thirty (30) days of the entry of the order; (ii) On
 an annual basis, the department shall require an employee who is 
receiving permanent total disability benefits to certify on forms 
provided by the department that the employee continues to be permanently
 totally disabled, that the employee is not currently working at an 
occupation that brings the employee an income and has not been gainfully
 employed since the date permanent total disability benefits were 
awarded, by trial or settlement; (iii) The
 department shall send the certification form to the employee by 
certified mail, return receipt requested and shall include a 
self-addressed stamped envelope for the return of the completed form; 
and (iv) In each annual 
cycle, if the employee fails to return the form to the department within
 thirty (30) days of the date of receipt of the form, as evidenced by 
the date on the return receipt notice, then the department shall notify 
the entity who gave notice to the department that the employee was 
permanently totally disabled pursuant to subdivision (4)(D)(i) that four
 (4) weeks of periodic disability benefits shall be withheld from the 
employee as a penalty for the failure to return the form to the 
department. If the completed form is returned to the department within 
one hundred twenty (120) days of the date on the return receipt notice, 
the department shall notify the appropriate entity and then, within 
fourteen (14) days of receipt of the notice from the department, that 
entity shall refund to the employee the entire four (4) weeks of 
periodic disability benefits previously withheld from the employee; (5) Deductions in Case of Death. In case a worker sustains an injury due to an accident arising 
primarily out of and in the course and scope of the worker's employment,
 and during the period of disability caused by the injury death results 
proximately from the injury, all payments previously made as 
compensation for the injury shall be deducted from the compensation, if 
any, due on account of death; and (6) For
 social security purposes only, as permitted by federal law or 
regulation, in an award of compensation as a lump sum or a partial lump 
sum under this chapter for permanent partial or permanent total 
disability, the court may make a finding of fact that the payment 
represents a payment to the individual to be distributed over the 
individual's lifetime based upon life expectancy as determined from 
mortality tables maintained by the United States Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 28; 1923, ch. 84, Â§ 1; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a177; 
Acts 1927, ch. 40, Â§ 2; Code 1932, Â§ 6878; Acts 1941, ch. 90, Â§ 5; 1947,
 ch. 139, Â§ 6; 1949, ch. 277, Â§ 3; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6878; Acts 1953, ch.
 111, Â§ 2; 1955, ch. 182, Â§ 2-5; 1957, ch. 270, Â§ 1-3; 1959, ch. 172, 
Â§ 2-6; 1961, ch. 26, Â§ 1; 1961, ch. 125, Â§ 1; 1963, ch. 362, Â§ 1, 4; 
1965, ch. 158, Â§ 1; 1967, ch. 313, Â§ 1, 2, 4, 5; 1969, ch. 196, Â§ 1, 
2; 1971, ch. 134, Â§ 1, 2, 4; 1973, ch. 379, Â§ 6; 1974, ch. 617, Â§ 2, 
7; 1975, ch. 86, Â§ 2, 7; 1977, ch. 354, Â§ 2; impl. am. Acts 1978, ch. 
934, Â§ 16, 36; Acts 1979, ch. 365, Â§ 2; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§
 1; Acts 1980, ch. 607, Â§ 2-5; 1981, ch. 333, Â§ 2-5; 1982, ch. 880, Â§
 2-5; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1007; Acts 1985, ch. 393, Â§ 5-9; 1992, 
ch. 900, Â§ 17; 1996, ch. 919, Â§ 2; 2000, ch. 852, Â§ 4, 20; 2002, ch. 
833, Â§ 1-3; 2003, ch. 194, Â§ 1; 2004, ch. 443, Â§ 1; 2007, ch. 403, Â§ 1;
 2007, ch. 513, Â§ 1; 2009, ch. 599, Â§ 4; 2010, ch. 920, Â§ 1; 2011, ch. 
47, Â§ 52; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 4, 5; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 47-53; 2014, ch. 
903, Â§ 6.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation---> 50-6-207.  Schedule of compensation.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-207. Schedule of compensation. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] The following is the schedule of compensation to be allowed employees under this chapter: (1) Temporary Total Disability. (A) For
 injury producing temporary total disability, sixty-six and two thirds 
percent (66 2/3%) of the average weekly wages as defined in this 
chapter, subject to the maximum weekly benefit and minimum weekly 
benefit; provided, that if the employee's average weekly wages are equal
 to or greater than the minimum weekly benefit, the employee shall 
receive not less than the minimum weekly benefit; and provided, further,
 that if the employee's average weekly wages are less than the minimum 
weekly benefit, the employee shall receive the full amount of the 
employee's average weekly wages, but in no event shall the compensation 
paid be less than the minimum weekly benefit. Where a fractional week of
 temporary total disability is involved, the compensation for each day 
shall be one seventh (1/7) of the amount due for a full week; (B) (i) An
 employer may choose to continue to compensate an injured employee at 
the employee's regular wages or salary during the employee's period of 
temporary total and temporary partial disability. The payments shall not
 result in an employee's receiving less than the employee would 
otherwise receive for temporary disability benefits under this chapter; 
however, a court or the department has no authority to require an 
employer to pay any temporary disability benefits required by 
subdivision (1)(A), in addition to the employee's regular wages or 
salary; (ii) When an 
employee receives payments under subdivision (1)(B)(i) and the 
employee's claim for compensation under this chapter is determined by a 
court or settlement to be compensable, the employer shall be given 
credit for the payments. The credit shall be no more than the employee 
would have been otherwise paid under subdivision (1)(A), and any amount 
paid beyond the amount that would have otherwise been paid under 
subdivision (1)(A) shall not be credited against any award for permanent
 disability; (C) Any person 
who has drawn unemployment compensation benefits and who subsequently 
receives compensation for temporary disability benefits under a workers'
 compensation law with respect to the same period shall be required to 
repay the unemployment compensation benefits; provided, that the amount 
to be repaid does not exceed the amount of temporary disability 
benefits; (D) An employee 
claiming a mental injury as defined by Â§ 50-6-102 occurring on or after 
July 1, 2009, shall be conclusively presumed to be at maximum medical 
improvement upon the earliest occurrence of the following: (i) At the time the treating psychiatrist concludes the employee has reached maximum medical improvement; (ii) One
 hundred four (104) weeks after the employee has reached maximum medical
 improvement as a result of the physical injury or illness that is the 
proximate cause of the mental injury; or (iii) One
 hundred four (104) weeks after the date of injury in the case of mental
 injuries where there is no underlying physical injury; (E) If
 a treating physician determines that pain is persisting for an injured 
worker beyond an expected period for healing, the physician may refer 
such injured worker for pain management, encompassing pharmacological, 
nonpharmacological and other approaches to reduce or stop pain 
sensations. Such injured worker shall be presumed to have reached 
maximum medical improvement at the earliest occurrence of the following: (i) The treating physician determines the injured worker has reached maximum medical improvement; or (ii) One hundred and four (104) weeks after the commencement of pain management pursuant to the referral of the treating physician; (2) Temporary Partial Disability. In all cases of temporary partial disability, the compensation shall be
 sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the difference between 
the average weekly wage of the worker at the time of the injury and the 
wage the worker is able to earn in the worker's partially disabled 
condition. This compensation shall be paid during the period of the 
disability, not, however, beyond four hundred (400) weeks, payment to be
 made at the intervals when the wage was payable, as nearly as may be, 
and subject to the same maximum, as stated in subdivision (1). In no 
event shall the compensation be less than the minimum weekly benefit; (3) Permanent Partial Disability. (A) In
 case of disability partial in character but adjudged to be permanent, 
there shall be paid to the injured employee, in addition to the benefits
 provided by Â§ 50-6-204, the following: (i) Sixty-six
 and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the injured employee's average 
weekly wages for the period of time during which the injured employee 
suffers temporary total disability on account of the injury, the benefit
 being subject to the same limitation as to minimum and maximum as 
provided in subdivision (1); and (ii) In
 addition, the injured employee shall receive sixty-six and two thirds 
percent (66 2/3%) of the injured employee's average weekly wages in 
accordance with the schedule set out in this subdivision (3); provided, 
that the compensation paid the injured employee for the period of 
temporary total disability and temporary partial disability shall not be
 deducted from the compensation to be paid under the schedule: (a) For the loss of a thumb, sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the average weekly wages during sixty (60) weeks; (b) For
 the loss of a first finger, commonly called an index finger, sixty-six 
and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the average weekly wages during 
thirty-five (35) weeks; (c) For
 the loss of a second finger, sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%)
 of the average weekly wages during thirty (30) weeks; (d) For
 the loss of a third finger, sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) 
of the average weekly wages during twenty (20) weeks; (e) For
 the loss of a fourth finger, commonly called a little finger, sixty-six
 and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the average weekly wages during 
fifteen (15) weeks; (f) For
 the loss of the first phalange of the thumb, or of any finger, which 
shall be considered equal to the loss of one half (1/2) of such thumb or
 finger, compensation shall be paid at the prescribed rate during one 
half (1/2) of the time specified for the thumb or finger; (g) The
 loss of more than one (1) phalange shall be considered as the loss of 
the entire finger or thumb; provided, that in no case shall the amount 
received for more than one (1) finger exceed the amount provided in this
 schedule for the loss of a hand; (h) For the loss of the great toe, sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the average weekly wages during thirty (30) weeks; (i) For
 the loss of one (1) of the toes other than the great toe, sixty-six and
 two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the average weekly wages during ten 
(10) weeks; (j) The loss
 of a first phalange of any toe shall be considered to be equal to the 
loss of one half (1/2) of such toe, and compensation shall be paid at 
the prescribed rate during one half (1/2) the time specified for the 
toe; (k) The loss of more than one phalange shall be considered as the loss of the entire toe; (l) For
 the loss of a hand, sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the 
average weekly wages during one hundred fifty (150) weeks; (m) For the loss of an arm, sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the average weekly wages during two hundred (200) weeks; (n) For
 the loss of a foot, sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the 
average weekly wages for one hundred twenty-five (125) weeks; (o) For the loss of a leg, sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the average weekly wages during two hundred (200) weeks; (p) Compensation
 for an arm or leg, if amputated above the wrist joint or above the 
ankle joint shall be for the loss of the arm or leg; (q) For the loss of an eye, sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the average weekly wages during one hundred (100) weeks; (r) For
 the complete permanent loss of hearing in both ears, sixty-six and two 
thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the average weekly wages during one hundred 
fifty (150) weeks; (s) For
 the loss of an eye and a leg, sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 
2/3%) of the average weekly wages during three hundred fifty (350) 
weeks; (t) For the loss 
of an eye and an arm, sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the 
average weekly wages during three hundred fifty (350) weeks; (u) For
 the loss of an eye and a hand, sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 
2/3%) of the average weekly wages during three hundred twenty-five (325)
 weeks; (v) For the loss
 of an eye and a foot, sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the
 average weekly wages during three hundred (300) weeks; (w) For
 the loss of two (2) arms, other than at the shoulder, sixty-six and two
 thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the average weekly wages during four 
hundred (400) weeks; (x) For
 the loss of two (2) hands, sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) 
of the average weekly wages during four hundred (400) weeks; (y) For
 the loss of two (2) legs, sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of
 the average weekly wages during four hundred (400) weeks; (z) For
 the loss of two (2) feet, sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) of
 the average weekly wages during four hundred (400) weeks; (aa) For
 the loss of one (1) arm and the other hand, sixty-six and two thirds 
percent (66 2/3%) of the average weekly wages during four hundred (400) 
weeks; (bb) For the loss
 of one (1) hand and (1) foot, sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 
2/3%) of the average weekly wages during four hundred (400) weeks; (cc) For
 the loss of one (1) leg and one (1) hand, sixty-six and two thirds 
percent (66 2/3%) of the average weekly wages during four hundred (400) 
weeks; (dd) For the loss
 of one (1) arm and one (1) foot, sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 
2/3%) of the average weekly wages during four hundred (400) weeks; and (ee) For
 the loss of one (1) arm and one (1) leg, sixty-six and two thirds 
percent (66 2/3%) of the average weekly wages during four hundred (400) 
weeks; (B) The total amount of compensation payable in this subdivision (3) shall not exceed the maximum total benefit; (C) When
 an employee sustains concurrent injuries resulting in concurrent 
disabilities, such employee shall receive compensation only for the 
injury that produced the longest period of disability, but this section 
shall not affect liability for the concurrent loss of more than one (1) 
member, for which members' compensations are provided in the specific 
schedule and in subdivision (4)(B). In all cases the permanent and total
 loss of the use of a member shall be considered as equivalent to the 
loss of that member, but in such cases the compensation in and by the 
schedule provided shall be in lieu of all other compensation; (D) In
 cases of permanent partial disability due to injury to a member 
resulting in less than total loss of use of the member not otherwise 
compensated in this schedule, compensation shall be paid at the 
prescribed rate during that part of the time specified in the schedule 
for the total loss or total loss of use of the respective member that 
the extent of injury to the member bears to its total loss. If an 
injured employee refuses employment suitable to the injured employee's 
capacity, offered to or procured for the injured employee, the injured 
employee shall not be entitled to any compensation at any time during 
the continuance of the refusal, unless at any time in the opinion of a 
court having jurisdiction over the underlying workers' compensation case
 the refusal is justifiable. All compensation provided in this 
subdivision (3) for loss to members, or loss of use of members, is 
subject to the same limitation as to maximum and minimum as are stated 
in subdivision (1); (E) For 
serious disfigurement to the head, face or hands, not resulting from the
 loss of a member or other injury specifically compensated, so altering 
the personal appearance of the injured employee as to materially affect 
the injured employee's employability in the employment in which the 
injured employee was injured or other employment for which the injured 
employee is then qualified, sixty-six and two thirds percent (66 2/3%) 
of the average weekly wages for the period the court determines, not 
exceeding two hundred (200) weeks. This benefit shall not be awarded in 
any case where the injured employee is compensated under any other 
provision of this chapter; (F) All
 other cases of permanent partial disability enumerated in this 
subdivision (3) shall be apportioned to the body as a whole, which shall
 have a value of four hundred (400) weeks, and there shall be paid 
compensation to the injured employee for the proportionate loss of use 
of the body as a whole resulting from the injury. Compensation for such 
permanent partial disability shall be subject to the same limitations as
 to maximum and minimum as provided in subdivision (1). If an employee 
has previously sustained an injury compensable under this section for 
which a court of competent jurisdiction has awarded benefits based on 
percentage of disability to the body as a whole and suffers a subsequent
 injury not enumerated in this subdivision (3), the injured employee 
shall be paid compensation for the period of temporary total disability 
and only for the degree of permanent disability that results from the 
subsequent injury. The benefits provided by this subdivision (3)(F) 
shall not be awarded in any case where benefits for a specific loss are 
otherwise provided in this chapter; (4) Permanent Total Disability. (A) (i) For
 permanent total disability as defined in subdivision (4)(B), sixty-six 
and two thirds percent (662/3%) of the wages received at the time of the
 injury, subject to the maximum weekly benefit and minimum weekly 
benefit; provided, that if the employee's average weekly wages are equal
 to or greater than the minimum weekly benefit, the employee shall 
receive not less than the minimum weekly benefit; provided, further, 
that if the employee's average weekly wages are less than the minimum 
weekly benefit, the employee shall receive the full amount of the 
employee's average weekly wages, but in no event shall the compensation 
paid be less than the minimum weekly benefit. This compensation shall be
 paid during the period of the permanent total disability until the 
employee is, by age, eligible for full benefits in the Old Age Insurance
 Benefit Program under the Social Security Act, compiled in 42 U.S.C. Â§ 
401 et seq.; provided, that with respect to disabilities resulting from 
injuries that occur after sixty (60) years of age, regardless of the age
 of the employee, permanent total disability benefits are payable for a 
period of two hundred sixty (260) weeks. The compensation payments shall
 be reduced by the amount of any old age insurance benefit payments 
attributable to employer contributions that the employee may receive 
under title 42, chapter 7, title II of the Social Security Act, 42 
U.S.C. Â§ 401 et seq. Notwithstanding any statute or court decision to 
the contrary, the statutory social security offset provided by this 
section shall have no applicability to death benefits awarded to a 
deceased worker's dependents pursuant to this chapter; (ii) Notwithstanding
 any other law to the contrary and notwithstanding any agreement of the 
parties to the contrary, permanent total disability payments shall not 
be commuted to a lump sum, except in accordance with the following: (a) Benefits
 may be commuted to a lump sum to pay only the employee's attorney's 
fees and litigation expenses and to pay pre-injury obligations in 
arrears; (b) The commuted portion of an award shall not exceed the value of one hundred (100) weeks of the employee's benefits; (c) After
 the total amount of the commuted lump sum is determined, the amount of 
the weekly disability benefit shall be recalculated to distribute the 
total remaining permanent total benefits in equal weekly installments 
beginning with the date of entry of the order and terminating on the 
date the employee's disability benefits terminate pursuant to 
subdivision (4)(A)(i); (iii) Attorneys'
 fees in contested cases of permanent total disability shall be 
calculated upon the first four hundred (400) weeks of disability only; (iv) In
 case an employee who is permanently and totally disabled becomes a 
resident of a public institution, and provided further, that if no 
person or persons are wholly dependent upon the employee, then the 
amounts falling due during the lifetime of the employee shall be paid to
 the employee or to the employee's guardian or conservator, if 
adjudicated incompetent, to be spent for the employee's benefit; such 
payments to cease upon the death of the employee; (B) When
 an injury not otherwise specifically provided for in this chapter 
totally incapacitates the employee from working at an occupation that 
brings the employee an income, the employee shall be considered totally 
disabled and for such disability compensation shall be paid as provided 
in subdivision (4)(A); provided, that the total amount of compensation 
payable under this subdivision (4)(B) shall not exceed the maximum total
 benefit, exclusive of medical and hospital benefits; (C) (i) If
 an employee is determined, by trial or settlement, to be permanently 
totally disabled, the employer, insurer or the department, in the event 
the second injury fund is involved, may have the employee examined, at 
the expense of the requesting entity, from time to time, subject to the 
conditions outlined in this section, and may seek reconsideration of the
 issue of permanent total disability as provided in this subdivision 
(4)(C); (ii) The request 
for the examination of the employee may not be made until twenty-four 
(24) months have elapsed following the entry of a final order in which 
it is determined that the employee is permanently totally disabled. Any 
request for an examination is subject to considerations of 
reasonableness in regard to notice prior to examination, place of 
examination and length of examination; (iii) A
 request for an examination may not be made more often than once every 
twenty-four (24) months. The procedure for this examination shall be as 
follows: (a) The 
requesting entity shall first make informal contact with the employee, 
either by letter or by telephone, to attempt to schedule an appointment 
with a physician for examination at a mutually agreeable time and place.
 It is the intent of the general assembly that the requesting entity 
make a good faith effort to reach a mutual agreement for examination, 
recognizing the inherently intrusive nature of a request for 
examination; (b) If, 
after a reasonable period of time, not to exceed thirty (30) days, 
mutual agreement is not reached, the requesting entity shall send the 
employee written notice of demand for examination by certified mail, 
return receipt requested, on a form provided by the department. The form
 shall clearly inform the employee of the following: the date, time and 
place of the examination; the name of the examining physician; the 
employee's obligations; any pertinent time limitations; the employee's 
rights; and any consequences of the employee's failure to submit to the 
examination. The examination shall be scheduled to take place within 
thirty (30) days of the date on the notice; (c) After
 receipt of the notice of demand for examination, the employee shall 
either submit to the examination at the time and place identified in the
 notice form, or, within thirty (30) days from the date of the notice, 
the employee shall schedule an appointment for a different date and time
 conducted by the same physician, and this examination shall be 
completed no later than ninety (90) days from the date of the notice; (d) In
 the event the employee fails to submit to the examination at the time 
and place identified in the notice form and fails to schedule, within 
thirty (30) days from the date of the notice, an alternative examination
 date, as provided in subdivision (4)(C)(iii)(c), then the employee's periodic benefits shall be suspended for a period of thirty (30) days; (e) In the event the employee schedules an alternative date for the examination as provided in subdivision (4)(C)(iii)(c),
 and fails to submit to the examination within the ninety (90) day 
period, then the employee's periodic benefits shall be suspended for a 
period of thirty (30) days beginning at the end of the ninety (90) day 
period within which the alternatively scheduled examination was to be 
completed; (f) If the 
employee submits to an examination within any period of suspension of 
benefits, then within fourteen (14) days of the submission, periodic 
benefits shall be restored and any periodic benefits that were withheld 
during any period of suspension of benefits shall be remitted to the 
employee; (g) Within ten (10) days of the date on which periodic benefits are suspended pursuant to either subdivision (4)(C)(iii)(d) or (4)(C)(iii)(e),
 the entity suspending the periodic benefits shall notify the 
department, in writing, that periodic benefits have been suspended and 
the date on which the periodic benefits were suspended and shall provide
 the department a copy of the original notice of demand for examination 
sent to the employee; and (h) After the department receives notice of suspension of benefits pursuant to either subdivision (4)(C)(iii)(d) or (4)(C)(iii)(e),
 the department shall contact the employee and for a period of thirty 
(30) days assist the employee to schedule an examination to be conducted
 by the physician named in the notice. After the thirty (30) day 
assistance period has elapsed, if the employee has not submitted to an 
examination, the department shall authorize the employer, insurer or 
department to suspend periodic benefits for a period of thirty (30) 
days. At the conclusion of each thirty (30) day suspension period, 
periodic benefits shall be restored. After the restoration of periodic 
benefits, the department shall, in thirty (30) day cycles, continue to 
assist the employee to schedule the examination, to be followed by 
thirty (30) day cycles of suspension of benefits until the examination 
of the employee is completed. If, at any time during any period of 
suspension of periodic benefits, the employee submits to an examination,
 then within fourteen (14) days of notice of the examination having been
 conducted, periodic benefits shall be restored and any periodic 
benefits that were withheld during any period of suspension shall be 
remitted to the employee; (iv) Subsequent
 to an examination as described in this subdivision (4)(C), the 
employer, insurer or department may request a reconsideration of the 
issue of whether the employee continues to be permanently totally 
disabled based on any changes in the employee's circumstances that have 
occurred since the time of the initial settlement or trial; (v) Prior
 to filing any request for reconsideration, the employer, insurer or 
department shall request a benefit review conference with the 
department. The parties may not waive the benefit review conference. If 
the parties are unable to reach an agreement at the benefit review 
conference, the employer, insurer or department may file a request for 
reconsideration before the court originally adjudging or approving the 
award of permanent total disability. In the event that a settlement 
approved by the department is to be reconsidered under these provisions,
 then a cause of action should be filed as provided in Â§ 50-6-225; (vi) In
 the event a reconsideration request is filed pursuant to this section, 
the only remedy available to the employer, insurer or department is the 
modification or termination of future periodic disability benefits; (vii) In
 the event the employer, insurer or department files a request for 
reconsideration or cause of action under this subdivision (4)(C) and the
 court does not terminate the employee's future periodic disability 
benefits, the employee shall be entitled to an award of reasonable 
attorney fees, court costs and reasonable and necessary expenses 
incurred by the employee in responding to the request for 
reconsideration upon application to and approval by the court. In 
determining what attorney fees shall be awarded under this subdivision 
(4)(C), the court shall make specific findings with respect to the 
following criteria: (a) The
 time and labor required, the novelty and difficulty of the questions 
involved in responding to the request for reconsideration, and the skill
 requisite to perform the legal service properly; (b) The fee customarily charged in the locality or by the attorney for similar legal services; (c) The amount involved and the results obtained; (d) The time limitations imposed by the client or by the circumstances; and (e) The experience, reputation, and ability of the lawyer or lawyers performing the services; (D) (i) The
 employer, insurer or department, in the event the second injury fund is
 involved, shall notify the department, on a form to be developed by the
 department, of the entry of a final order adjudging an employee to be 
permanently totally disabled. The form shall be submitted to the 
department within thirty (30) days of the entry of the order; (ii) On
 an annual basis, the department shall require an employee who is 
receiving permanent total disability benefits to certify on forms 
provided by the department that the employee continues to be permanently
 totally disabled, that the employee is not currently working at an 
occupation that brings the employee an income and has not been gainfully
 employed since the date permanent total disability benefits were 
awarded, by trial or settlement; (iii) The
 department shall send the certification form to the employee by 
certified mail, return receipt requested and shall include a 
self-addressed stamped envelope for the return of the completed form; 
and (iv) In each annual 
cycle, if the employee fails to return the form to the department within
 thirty (30) days of the date of receipt of the form, as evidenced by 
the date on the return receipt notice, then the department shall notify 
the entity who gave notice to the department that the employee was 
permanently totally disabled pursuant to subdivision (4)(D)(i) that four
 (4) weeks of periodic disability benefits shall be withheld from the 
employee as a penalty for the failure to return the form to the 
department. If the completed form is returned to the department within 
one hundred twenty (120) days of the date on the return receipt notice, 
the department shall notify the appropriate entity and then, within 
fourteen (14) days of receipt of the notice from the department, that 
entity shall refund to the employee the entire four (4) weeks of 
periodic disability benefits previously withheld from the employee; (5) Deductions in Case of Death. In case a worker sustains an injury due to an accident arising out of 
and in the course of the worker's employment, and during the period of 
disability caused by the injury death results proximately from the 
injury, all payments previously made as compensation for the injury 
shall be deducted from the compensation, if any, due on account of 
death; and (6) For social 
security purposes only, as permitted by federal law or regulation, in an
 award of compensation as a lump sum or a partial lump sum under this 
chapter for permanent partial or permanent total disability, the court 
may make a finding of fact that the payment represents a payment to the 
individual to be distributed over the individual's lifetime based upon 
life expectancy as determined from mortality tables from this code.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 28; 1923, ch. 84, Â§ 1; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a177; 
Acts 1927, ch. 40, Â§ 2; Code 1932, Â§ 6878; Acts 1941, ch. 90, Â§ 5; 1947,
 ch. 139, Â§ 6; 1949, ch. 277, Â§ 3; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6878; Acts 1953, ch.
 111, Â§ 2; 1955, ch. 182, Â§ 2-5; 1957, ch. 270, Â§ 1-3; 1959, ch. 172, 
Â§ 2-6; 1961, ch. 26, Â§ 1; 1961, ch. 125, Â§ 1; 1963, ch. 362, Â§ 1, 4; 
1965, ch. 158, Â§ 1; 1967, ch. 313, Â§ 1, 2, 4, 5; 1969, ch. 196, Â§ 1, 
2; 1971, ch. 134, Â§ 1, 2, 4; 1973, ch. 379, Â§ 6; 1974, ch. 617, Â§ 2, 
7; 1975, ch. 86, Â§ 2, 7; 1977, ch. 354, Â§ 2; impl. am. Acts 1978, ch. 
934, Â§ 16, 36; Acts 1979, ch. 365, Â§ 2; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§
 1; Acts 1980, ch. 607, Â§ 2-5; 1981, ch. 333, Â§ 2-5; 1982, ch. 880, Â§
 2-5; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1007; Acts 1985, ch. 393, Â§ 5-9; 1992, 
ch. 900, Â§ 17; 1996, ch. 919, Â§ 2; 2000, ch. 852, Â§ 4, 20; 2002, ch. 
833, Â§ 1-3; 2003, ch. 194, Â§ 1; 2004, ch. 443, Â§ 1; 2007, ch. 403, Â§ 1;
 2007, ch. 513, Â§ 1; 2009, ch. 599, Â§ 4; 2010, ch. 920, Â§ 1; 2011, ch. 
47, Â§ 52.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-208.  Subsequent permanent injury after sustaining previous permanent injury -- Second injury fund -- Disbursement -- Settlement authority.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-208. Subsequent
 permanent injury after sustaining previous permanent injury -- Second 
injury fund -- Disbursement -- Settlement authority. [Applicable to 
injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) If
 an employee has previously sustained a permanent physical disability 
from any cause or origin and becomes permanently and totally disabled 
through a subsequent injury, the employee shall be entitled to 
compensation from the employee's employer or the employer's insurance 
company only for the disability that would have resulted from the 
subsequent injury, and the previous injury shall not be considered in 
estimating the compensation to which the employee may be entitled under 
this chapter from the employer or the employer's insurance company; 
provided, that in addition to the compensation for a subsequent injury, 
and after completion of the payments for the subsequent injury, then the
 employee shall be paid the remainder of the compensation that would be 
due for the permanent total disability out of a special fund to be known
 as the second injury fund. (2) To
 receive benefits from the second injury fund, the injured employee must
 be the employee of an employer who has properly insured the employer's 
workers' compensation liability or has qualified to operate under this 
chapter as a self-insurer, and the employer must establish that the 
employer had actual knowledge of the permanent and preexisting 
disability at the time that the employee was hired or at the time that 
the employee was retained in employment after the employer acquired 
knowledge, but in all cases prior to the subsequent injury. (3) In
 determining the percentage of disability for which the second injury 
fund shall be liable, no previous physical impairment shall be 
considered unless the impairment was within the knowledge of the 
employer as prescribed in subdivision (a)(2). (4) Nothing
 in this section shall be construed to limit the employer's liability as
 provided by law for aggravation of preexisting conditions or 
disabilities in cases where recovery against the second injury fund is 
not applicable. (5) Claims 
against the fund shall be made by either the injured employee or the 
employer in the manner prescribed in Â§ 50-6-239. In all cases when a 
party is making a claim against the fund, the party advancing the claim 
shall give notice to the fund of any alternative dispute resolution 
proceedings scheduled pursuant to Â§ 50-6-236. (6) Nothing
 in this section shall relieve the employer or its insurance company of 
liability for other benefits that may be due the injured employee, 
including temporary benefits, medical expenses and permanent benefits 
for injuries.(b) [Deleted by 2013 amendment, effective July 1, 2014.](c) A
 sum sufficient to provide the benefits of this section shall be 
allocated from the four percent (4%) premium tax imposed in Â§ 
50-6-401(b), subject to a maximum allocation of fifty percent (50%) of 
the premium tax collected. The sums shall be deposited in the second 
injury fund for distribution by the administrator of the division of 
workers' compensation.(d) There is 
appropriated a sum sufficient to the second injury fund for payment of 
benefits provided in this section, pursuant to this section. The 
appropriation shall be allocated from and equal to an amount not greater
 than fifty percent (50%) of the revenues derived from the premium tax 
levied pursuant to Â§ 50-6-401.(e) The
 sums collected by the administrator as provided in this section shall 
be deposited by the administrator in a special fund, which shall be 
termed the second injury fund, to be disbursed by the administrator only
 for the purposes stated in this section and shall not at any time be 
appropriated or diverted to any other purpose. The administrator shall 
not invest any moneys in the second injury fund in any other manner than
 is provided by the general laws of the state for investments of funds 
in the hands of the state treasurer. Disbursements from the fund shall 
be made by the administrator only after receipt by the administrator of a
 certified copy of the court decree awarding compensation as provided in
 this section. Disbursements shall be made only in accordance with the 
decree. A copy of the decree awarding compensation from the second 
injury fund shall in all cases be filed with the division.(f) The
 administrator, in consultation with the attorney general and reporter, 
shall prepare a plan for a pilot project using private legal counsel to 
defend the administrator in actions claiming compensation from the 
second injury fund pursuant to Â§ 50-6-206 [See the Compiler's Notes.]. 
The plan shall include types of cases, approximate numbers of cases, 
proposed method of selection and other relevant matters. Any private 
legal counsel retained for these purposes shall be retained pursuant to Â§
 8-6-106. Expenses relating to private legal counsel retained pursuant 
to this subsection (f) shall be paid from the second injury fund.(g) (1) Before
 any proposed settlement is considered final in cases involving benefits
 from the second injury fund under this section, it shall either: (A) Have the written approval of the administrator or the administrator's designee, in accordance with subdivision (g)(2); or (B) Have been approved in accordance with Â§ 20-13-103. (2) The
 administrator is authorized to settle certain second injury fund claims
 without the necessity of complying with Â§ 20-13-103; provided, that the
 attorney general and reporter, with the written approval of the 
governor and the comptroller of the treasury, shall set specific limits 
and conditions on the settlement authority.(h) In
 order to require the second injury fund to participate in the 
alternative dispute resolution, a party shall serve notice of potential 
liability on the fund.(i) "Party" or "parties," as referenced in Â§ 50-6-204(d)(5), shall include the second injury fund.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 20; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a169; Code 1932, Â§ 6871; 
Acts 1945, ch. 149, Â§ 1; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6871; Acts 1961, ch. 26, Â§ 2; 
1973, ch. 379, Â§ 10; 1975, ch. 76, Â§ 1; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 
2; Acts 1980, ch. 479, Â§ 2; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1027; Acts 1983, 
ch. 217, Â§ 3, 4; 1985, ch. 319, Â§ 1; 1985, ch. 393, Â§ 10, 22; 1989, 
ch. 238, Â§ 1; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 15; 1997, ch. 533, Â§ 4; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 
41; 2001, ch. 366, Â§ 1; 2002, ch. 695, Â§ 3; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 25; 2005, 
ch. 390, Â§ 7, 15, 16; 2006, ch. 1014, Â§ 1; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1, 6; 
2013, ch. 289, Â§ 54, 55.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation---> 50-6-208.  Subsequent permanent injury after sustaining previous permanent injury -- Second injury fund -- Disbursement -- Pilot project for legal defense of administrator -- Settlement authority.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-208. Subsequent
 permanent injury after sustaining previous permanent injury -- Second 
injury fund -- Disbursement -- Pilot project for legal defense of 
administrator -- Settlement authority. [Applicable to injuries 
occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) If
 an employee has previously sustained a permanent physical disability 
from any cause or origin and becomes permanently and totally disabled 
through a subsequent injury, the employee shall be entitled to 
compensation from the employee's employer or the employer's insurance 
company only for the disability that would have resulted from the 
subsequent injury, and the previous injury shall not be considered in 
estimating the compensation to which the employee may be entitled under 
this chapter from the employer or the employer's insurance company; 
provided, that in addition to the compensation for a subsequent injury, 
and after completion of the payments for the subsequent injury, then the
 employee shall be paid the remainder of the compensation that would be 
due for the permanent total disability out of a special fund to be known
 as the second injury fund. (2) To
 receive benefits from the second injury fund, the injured employee must
 be the employee of an employer who has properly insured the employer's 
workers' compensation liability or has qualified to operate under this 
chapter as a self-insurer, and the employer must establish that the 
employer had actual knowledge of the permanent and preexisting 
disability at the time that the employee was hired or at the time that 
the employee was retained in employment after the employer acquired 
knowledge, but in all cases prior to the subsequent injury. (3) In
 determining the percentage of disability for which the second injury 
fund shall be liable, no previous physical impairment shall be 
considered unless the impairment was within the knowledge of the 
employer as prescribed in subdivision (a)(2). (4) Nothing
 in this section shall be construed to limit the employer's liability as
 provided by law for aggravation of preexisting conditions or 
disabilities in cases where recovery against the second injury fund is 
not applicable.(b) (1) (A) In
 cases where the injured employee has received or will receive a 
workers' compensation award or awards for permanent disability to the 
body as a whole, and the combination of the awards equals or exceeds one
 hundred percent (100%) permanent disability to the body as a whole, the
 employee shall not be entitled to receive from the employer or its 
insurance carrier any compensation for permanent disability to the body 
as a whole that would be in excess of one hundred percent (100%) 
permanent disability to the body as a whole, after combining awards. (B) Benefits
 that may be due the employee for permanent disability to the body as a 
whole in excess of one hundred percent (100%) permanent disability to 
the body as a whole, after combining awards, shall be paid by the second
 injury fund. (C) It is the 
intention of the general assembly that once an employee receives an 
award or awards for permanent disability to the body as a whole, and the
 awards total one hundred percent (100%) permanent disability, any 
permanent disability compensation due for subsequent compensable 
injuries to the body as a whole shall be paid by the second injury fund,
 instead of by the employer. (D) This
 subdivision (b)(1) shall apply only to injuries that arise on or before
 June 30, 2006, and shall have no applicability to injuries that arise 
on or after July 1, 2006. (2) (A) The
 burden of proving the existence of previous awards for permanent 
disability specific to the body as a whole shall be on the party 
claiming compensation against the second injury fund. This subdivision 
(b)(2)(A) shall apply only to injuries that arise on or before June 30, 
2006, and shall have no applicability to injuries that arise on or after
 July 1, 2006. (B) Claims against the fund shall be made by either the injured employee or the employer in the manner prescribed in Â§ 50-6-206. (C) Nothing
 in this section shall relieve the employer or its insurance company of 
liability for other benefits that may be due the injured employee, 
including temporary benefits, medical expenses and permanent benefits 
for injuries other than to the body as a whole, regardless of whether 
the combination of workers' compensation awards exceeds one hundred 
percent (100%) permanent disability.(c) A
 sum sufficient to provide the benefits of this section shall be 
allocated from the four percent (4%) premium tax imposed in Â§ 
50-6-401(b), subject to a maximum allocation of fifty percent (50%) of 
the premium tax collected. The sums shall be deposited in the second 
injury fund for distribution by the administrator of the division of 
workers' compensation.(d) There is 
appropriated a sum sufficient to the second injury fund for payment of 
benefits provided in this section, pursuant to this section. The 
appropriation shall be allocated from and equal to an amount not greater
 than fifty percent (50%) of the revenues derived from the premium tax 
levied pursuant to Â§ 50-6-401.(e) The
 sums collected by the administrator as provided in this section shall 
be deposited by the administrator in a special fund, which shall be 
termed the second injury fund, to be disbursed by the administrator only
 for the purposes stated in this section and shall not at any time be 
appropriated or diverted to any other purpose. The administrator shall 
not invest any moneys in the second injury fund in any other manner than
 is provided by the general laws of the state for investments of funds 
in the hands of the state treasurer. Disbursements from the fund shall 
be made by the administrator only after receipt by the administrator of a
 certified copy of the court decree awarding compensation as provided in
 this section. Disbursements shall be made only in accordance with the 
decree. A copy of the decree awarding compensation from the second 
injury fund shall in all cases be filed with the division.(f) The
 commissioner, in consultation with the attorney general and reporter, 
shall prepare a plan for a pilot project using private legal counsel to 
defend the administrator in actions claiming compensation from the 
second injury fund pursuant to Â§ 50-6-206. The plan shall include types 
of cases, approximate numbers of cases, proposed method of selection and
 other relevant matters. Any private legal counsel retained for these 
purposes shall be retained pursuant to Â§ 8-6-106. Expenses relating to 
private legal counsel retained pursuant to this subsection (f) shall be 
paid from the second injury fund.(g) (1) Before
 any proposed settlement is considered final in cases involving benefits
 from the second injury fund under this section, it shall either: (A) Have the written approval of the commissioner or the commissioner's designee, in accordance with subdivision (g)(2); or (B) Have been approved in accordance with Â§ 20-13-103. (2) The
 commissioner is authorized to settle certain second injury fund claims 
without the necessity of complying with Â§ 20-13-103; provided, that the 
attorney general and reporter, with the written approval of the governor
 and the comptroller of the treasury, shall set specific limits and 
conditions on the settlement authority.(h) In
 order to require the second injury fund to participate in the benefit 
review conference, a party shall serve notice of potential liability on 
the fund.(i) "Party" or "parties," as referenced in Â§ 50-6-204(d)(5), shall include the second injury fund.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 20; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a169; Code 1932, Â§ 6871; 
Acts 1945, ch. 149, Â§ 1; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6871; Acts 1961, ch. 26, Â§ 2; 
1973, ch. 379, Â§ 10; 1975, ch. 76, Â§ 1; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 
2; Acts 1980, ch. 479, Â§ 2; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1027; Acts 1983, 
ch. 217, Â§ 3, 4; 1985, ch. 319, Â§ 1; 1985, ch. 393, Â§ 10, 22; 1989, 
ch. 238, Â§ 1; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 15; 1997, ch. 533, Â§ 4; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 
41; 2001, ch. 366, Â§ 1; 2002, ch. 695, Â§ 3; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 25; 2005, 
ch. 390, Â§ 7, 15, 16; 2006, ch. 1014, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-209.  Maximum compensation.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-209. Maximum compensation. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) In
 all cases of permanent total disability of an employee covered by this 
chapter, sixty-six and two-thirds percent (662/3%) of the average weekly
 wages shall be paid, subject to maximum compensation as follows: where 
there are or are not persons dependent upon each injured employee, the 
maximum weekly benefit per week.(b) (1) In
 all cases of death of an employee covered by this chapter, sixty-six 
and two-thirds percent (662/3%) of the average weekly wages shall be 
paid in cases where the deceased employee leaves dependents, subject to 
the maximum weekly benefit. (2) In
 all cases of death of an employee covered by this chapter, and where 
the employee leaves no dependents, as provided in Â§ 50-6-210, then the 
lump sum amount of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) shall be paid to 
the estate of the deceased employee. (3) The
 total amount of compensation payable under this subsection (b) shall 
not exceed the maximum total benefit exclusive of medical, hospital and 
funeral benefits.HISTORY: Acts 1923, ch. 84, Â§ 1; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a178, 3608a179; Acts 1927, 
ch. 40, Â§ 1; mod. Code 1932, Â§ 6879-6881; Acts 1941, ch. 90, Â§ 6, 7; 
1947, ch. 139, Â§ 7-9; 1949, ch. 277, Â§ 4-6; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 
6879-6881; Acts 1953, ch. 111, Â§ 3-5; 1955, ch. 182, Â§ 6-8; 1957, ch. 
270, Â§ 4-6; 1959, ch. 172, Â§ 7-9; 1963, ch. 362, Â§ 1; 1965, ch. 158, Â§
 1; 1967, ch. 313, Â§ 1, 2; 1969, ch. 196, Â§ 1, 2; 1971, ch. 134, Â§ 1,
 2; 1973, ch. 379, Â§ 7, 8; 1974, ch. 617, Â§ 3-5; 1975, ch. 86, Â§ 3-5;
 1977, ch. 354, Â§ 3-5; 1979, ch. 365, Â§ 3-5; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 
534, Â§ 1; Acts 1980, ch. 607, Â§ 6-8; 1980, ch. 650, Â§ 2; 1981, ch. 333,
 Â§ 6-8; 1982, ch. 880, Â§ 6-8; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1008, 50-1010,
 50-1011; Acts 1985, ch. 393, Â§ 12; 1999, ch. 404, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-210.  Dependents -- Compensation payments.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-210. Dependents -- Compensation payments. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) Persons Wholly Dependent. For the purposes of this chapter, the following persons shall be conclusively presumed to be wholly dependent: (1) A
 surviving spouse, unless it is shown that the surviving spouse was 
voluntarily living apart from the surviving spouse's spouse at the time 
of injury; and (2) Children under sixteen (16) years of age.(b) Persons Prima Facie Dependent. Children between sixteen (16) and eighteen (18) years of age, or those 
over eighteen (18) years of age, if physically or mentally incapacitated
 from earning, shall prima facie be considered dependent.(c) Actual Dependents. Wife, husband, child, mother, father, grandparent, sister, brother, 
mother-in-law, father-in-law, who were wholly supported by the deceased 
employee at the time of death and for a reasonable period of time 
immediately prior to the time of death, shall be considered actual 
dependents, and payment of compensation shall be made in the order 
named.(d) Partial Dependents. Any member of a class named in subsection (c) who regularly derived 
part of the member's support from the wages of the deceased employee at 
the time of death and for a reasonable period of time immediately prior 
to the time of death shall be considered a partial dependent, and 
payment of compensation shall be made to the dependents in the order 
named.(e) Compensation in Death Cases. In death cases, compensation payable to dependents shall be computed on
 the following basis, and shall be paid to the persons entitled to 
compensation, without administration: (1) Surviving Spouse and No Dependent Child.  If the deceased employee leaves a surviving spouse and no dependent 
child, there shall be paid to the surviving spouse fifty percent (50%) 
of the average weekly wages of the deceased. (2) Surviving Spouse and Children. If the deceased employee leaves a surviving spouse and one (1) or more 
dependent children, there shall be paid to the surviving spouse for the 
benefit of the surviving spouse and the child or children, sixty-six and
 two-thirds percent (662/3%) of the average weekly wages of the 
deceased. (3) Surviving Spouse and Children, How Paid.  In all cases where compensation is payable to a surviving spouse for 
the benefit of the surviving spouse and dependent child or children, the
 court shall have the power to determine in its discretion what portion 
of the compensation shall be applied for the benefit of any child or 
children, and may order the compensation paid to a guardian. (4) Remarriage of Surviving Spouse. Upon the remarriage of a surviving spouse, if there is no child of the 
deceased employee, the compensation shall terminate; but if there is a 
child or children under eighteen (18) years of age, or over eighteen 
(18) years of age if physically or mentally incapacitated from earning, 
from the time of the remarriage the child or children shall have status 
of orphan or orphans, and draw compensation accordingly, not, however, 
to exceed sixty-six and two-thirds percent (662/3%) of the average 
weekly wages of the deceased. (5) Dependent Orphans. If the deceased employee leaves one (1) dependent orphan, there shall 
be paid fifty percent (50%) of the average weekly wages of the deceased;
 if the deceased leaves two (2) or more dependent orphans, there shall 
be paid sixty-six and two-thirds percent (662/3%) of the average weekly 
wages of the deceased. (6) Parent or Parents. If the deceased employee leaves no surviving spouse or child entitled 
to any payment under this section, but should leave a parent or parents,
 either or both of whom are wholly dependent on the deceased, there 
shall be paid, if only one (1) parent, twenty-five percent (25%) of the 
average weekly wages of the deceased to the parent, and if both parents,
 thirty-five percent (35%) of the average weekly wages of the deceased 
to the parents. (7) Grandparent, Brother, Sister, Mother-in-law or Father-in-law.  If the deceased leaves no surviving spouse or dependent child or parent
 entitled to any payment under this section, but leaves a grandparent, 
brother, sister, mother-in-law or father-in-law wholly dependent upon 
the deceased for support, there shall be paid to the dependent, if only 
one (1), twenty percent (20%) of the average weekly wages of the 
deceased, or, if more than one (1), twenty-five percent (25%) of the 
average weekly wages of the deceased, divided between them or among them
 share and share alike. (8) Compensation to Dependents to Cease upon Death or Marriage. If compensation is being paid under this chapter to any dependent, the 
compensation shall cease, upon the death or marriage of the dependent, 
unless otherwise provided in this section. (9) Partial Dependents to Receive Proportion.  Partial dependents shall be entitled to receive only that proportion of
 the benefits provided for actual dependents that the average amount of 
the wages regularly contributed by the deceased to the partial dependent
 at the time of, and for a reasonable time immediately prior to, the 
injury, bore to the total income of the dependent during the same time. (10) Maximum and Minimum Compensation.  The compensation payable in case of death to persons wholly dependent 
shall be subject to the maximum weekly benefit and minimum weekly 
benefit; provided, that if at the time of injury the employee receives 
wages of less than the minimum weekly benefit, the compensation shall be
 the full amount of the wages a week, but in no event shall the 
compensation payable under this provision be less than the minimum 
weekly benefit. The compensation payable to partial dependents shall be 
subject to the same maximum and minimum specified in this subdivision 
(e)(10); provided, that if the income loss of the partial dependents by 
the death is less than the minimum weekly benefit, then the dependents 
shall receive the full amount of the income loss. This compensation 
shall be paid during dependency not to exceed the maximum total benefit,
 payments to be paid at the intervals when the wage was payable, as 
nearly as may be. (11) Orphans and Other Children. In computing and paying compensation to orphans or other children, in 
all cases, only those under eighteen (18) years of age, or those over 
eighteen (18) years of age who are physically or mentally incapacitated 
from earning, shall be included, the former to receive compensation only
 during the time they are under eighteen (18) years of age, the latter 
only for the time they are so incapacitated. If the dependent is 
attending a recognized educational institution, benefits shall be paid 
until twenty-two (22) years of age. (12) Actual Dependents. Actual dependents shall be entitled to take compensation in the order 
named in subsection (c), until sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 
2/3%) of the monthly wages of the deceased during the time specified in 
this chapter have been exhausted, but the total compensation to be paid 
to all actual dependents of a deceased employee shall not exceed in the 
aggregate the maximum weekly benefit. (13) Dependency Status Not Affected by Certain Assistance Payments.  Sums distributed under the Employment Security Law, compiled in chapter
 7 of this title; the Old-Age Assistance Law, compiled in title 71, 
chapter 2, part 2; the Aid to Dependent Children Law, compiled in title 
71, chapter 3, part 1; Aid to Blind Law, compiled in title 71, chapter 
4, part 1; the federal Social Security Act, compiled in 42 U.S.C. Â§ 301 
et seq., or any other public assistance distributed by the United States
 government, the state, or any county or municipality of the state, 
shall not be considered income within the meaning of this law and shall 
not affect the status or compensation of any person entitled to benefits
 as provided in this chapter.(f) (1) (A) If
 compensation is payable due to the death of an employee under this 
chapter, and the decedent leaves an alien dependent or dependents 
residing outside of the United States, a workers' compensation mediator 
is authorized to conduct alternative dispute resolution proceedings to 
attempt to resolve the issues; provided, that a representative or 
representatives of the employer and a duly authorized representative or 
representatives of the consul or other representative of the foreign 
country in which the dependent or dependents reside are present. If the 
parties reach a settlement agreement, the administrator or 
administrator's designee is authorized to approve the settlement, and 
the order of the administrator or the administrator's designee shall be 
entitled to the same standing as a judgment of a court of record for all
 purposes. If the parties are unable to reach an agreement, the employer
 or employee's representative may seek relief pursuant to Â§ 50-6-239 
following the issuance of a dispute certification notice. (B) The
 administrator, or administrator's designee, or the court shall order 
payment of any compensation due from the employer to be made to the duly
 accredited consular officer of the country where the beneficiaries are 
citizens. The consular officer or the consular officer's representative 
shall be fully authorized and empowered by this law to settle all claims
 for compensation and to receive the compensation for distribution to 
the persons entitled to the compensation. (2) The
 distribution of funds in cases described in subdivision (f)(1)(A) shall
 be made only upon the order of the administrator, the administrator's 
designee, or the court that heard the matter. If required to do so by 
the administrator, the administrator's designee, or the court, the 
consular officer or the consular officer's representative shall execute a
 good and sufficient bond to be approved by the administrator, the 
administrator's designee, or the court, conditioned upon the faithful 
accounting of the moneys so received by the consular officer or the 
consular officer's representative. Before the bond is discharged, a 
verified statement of receipts and disbursements of the moneys shall be 
made and filed with the administrator or the court, as appropriate. (3) The
 consular officer or the consular officer's representative shall, before
 receiving the first payment of the compensation, and at reasonable 
times thereafter, upon the request of the employer, furnish to the 
employer a sworn statement containing a list of the dependents with the 
name, age, residence, extent of dependency and relation to the deceased 
of each dependent.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 30; 1923, ch. 84, Â§ 1; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a181; 
Acts 1927, ch. 40, Â§ 3; Code 1932, Â§ 6883; Acts 1941, ch. 90, Â§ 8; 1943,
 ch. 110, Â§ 1; 1947, ch. 139, Â§ 10; 1949, ch. 277, Â§ 7; C. Supp. 1950, Â§
 6883; Acts 1953, ch. 111, Â§ 6; 1955, ch. 182, Â§ 9-16; 1957, ch. 270, 
Â§ 7, 8; 1959, ch. 172, Â§ 10, 11; 1963, ch. 362, Â§ 1; 1965, ch. 158, Â§ 
1; 1967, ch. 313, Â§ 1, 2; 1969, ch. 196, Â§ 1, 2; 1971, ch. 134, Â§ 1, 
2, 4; 1972, ch. 699, Â§ 3; 1973, ch. 379, Â§ 9; 1974, ch. 617, Â§ 6, 7; 
1975, ch. 86, Â§ 6, 7; 1977, ch. 354, Â§ 6; 1979, ch. 365, Â§ 6; 1979, ch.
 370, Â§ 1; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; Acts 1980, ch. 607, Â§ 9, 
10, 11; 1981, ch. 333, Â§ 9, 10; 1982, ch. 880, Â§ 9, 10; T.C.A. (orig. 
ed.), Â§ 50-1013; Acts 1985, ch. 393, Â§ 13; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 56.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-210.  Dependents -- Compensation payments.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-210. Dependents -- Compensation payments. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) Persons Wholly Dependent. For the purposes of this chapter, the following persons shall be conclusively presumed to be wholly dependent: (1) A
 surviving spouse, unless it is shown that the surviving spouse was 
voluntarily living apart from the surviving spouse's spouse at the time 
of injury; and (2) Children under sixteen (16) years of age.(b) Persons Prima Facie Dependent. Children between sixteen (16) and eighteen (18) years of age, or those 
over eighteen (18) years of age, if physically or mentally incapacitated
 from earning, shall prima facie be considered dependent.(c) Actual Dependents. Wife, husband, child, mother, father, grandparent, sister, brother, 
mother-in-law, father-in-law, who were wholly supported by the deceased 
employee at the time of death and for a reasonable period of time 
immediately prior to the time of death, shall be considered actual 
dependents, and payment of compensation shall be made in the order 
named.(d) Partial Dependents. Any member of a class named in subsection (c) who regularly derived 
part of the member's support from the wages of the deceased employee at 
the time of death and for a reasonable period of time immediately prior 
to the time of death shall be considered a partial dependent, and 
payment of compensation shall be made to the dependents in the order 
named.(e) Compensation in Death Cases. In death cases, compensation payable to dependents shall be computed on
 the following basis, and shall be paid to the persons entitled to 
compensation, without administration: (1) Surviving Spouse and No Dependent Child.  If the deceased employee leaves a surviving spouse and no dependent 
child, there shall be paid to the surviving spouse fifty percent (50%) 
of the average weekly wages of the deceased. (2) Surviving Spouse and Children. If the deceased employee leaves a surviving spouse and one (1) or more 
dependent children, there shall be paid to the surviving spouse for the 
benefit of the surviving spouse and the child or children, sixty-six and
 two-thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the average weekly wages of the 
deceased. (3) Surviving Spouse and Children, How Paid.  In all cases where compensation is payable to a surviving spouse for 
the benefit of the surviving spouse and dependent child or children, the
 court shall have the power to determine in its discretion what portion 
of the compensation shall be applied for the benefit of any child or 
children, and may order the compensation paid to a guardian. (4) Remarriage of Surviving Spouse. Upon the remarriage of a surviving spouse, if there is no child of the 
deceased employee, the compensation shall terminate; but if there is a 
child or children under eighteen (18) years of age, or over eighteen 
(18) years of age if physically or mentally incapacitated from earning, 
from the time of the remarriage the child or children shall have status 
of orphan or orphans, and draw compensation accordingly, not, however, 
to exceed sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the average 
weekly wages of the deceased. (5) Dependent Orphans. If the deceased employee leaves one (1) dependent orphan, there shall 
be paid fifty percent (50%) of the average weekly wages of the deceased;
 if the deceased leaves two (2) or more dependent orphans, there shall 
be paid sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the average weekly
 wages of the deceased. (6) Parent or Parents. If the deceased employee leaves no surviving spouse or child entitled 
to any payment under this section, but should leave a parent or parents,
 either or both of whom are wholly dependent on the deceased, there 
shall be paid, if only one (1) parent, twenty-five percent (25%) of the 
average weekly wages of the deceased to the parent, and if both parents,
 thirty-five percent (35%) of the average weekly wages of the deceased 
to the parents. (7) Grandparent, Brother, Sister, Mother-in-law or Father-in-law.  If the deceased leaves no surviving spouse or dependent child or parent
 entitled to any payment under this section, but leaves a grandparent, 
brother, sister, mother-in-law or father-in-law wholly dependent upon 
the deceased for support, there shall be paid to the dependent, if only 
one (1), twenty percent (20%) of the average weekly wages of the 
deceased, or, if more than one (1), twenty-five percent (25%) of the 
average weekly wages of the deceased, divided between them or among them
 share and share alike. (8) Compensation to Dependents to Cease upon Death or Marriage. If compensation is being paid under this chapter to any dependent, the 
compensation shall cease, upon the death or marriage of the dependent, 
unless otherwise provided in this section. (9) Partial Dependents to Receive Proportion.  Partial dependents shall be entitled to receive only that proportion of
 the benefits provided for actual dependents that the average amount of 
the wages regularly contributed by the deceased to the partial dependent
 at the time of, and for a reasonable time immediately prior to, the 
injury, bore to the total income of the dependent during the same time. (10) Maximum and Minimum Compensation.  The compensation payable in case of death to persons wholly dependent 
shall be subject to the maximum weekly benefit and minimum weekly 
benefit; provided, that if at the time of injury the employee receives 
wages of less than the minimum weekly benefit, the compensation shall be
 the full amount of the wages a week, but in no event shall the 
compensation payable under this provision be less than the minimum 
weekly benefit. The compensation payable to partial dependents shall be 
subject to the same maximum and minimum specified in this subdivision 
(e)(10); provided, that if the income loss of the partial dependents by 
the death is less than the minimum weekly benefit, then the dependents 
shall receive the full amount of the income loss. This compensation 
shall be paid during dependency not to exceed the maximum total benefit,
 payments to be paid at the intervals when the wage was payable, as 
nearly as may be. (11) Orphans and Other Children. In computing and paying compensation to orphans or other children, in 
all cases, only those under eighteen (18) years of age, or those over 
eighteen (18) years of age who are physically or mentally incapacitated 
from earning, shall be included, the former to receive compensation only
 during the time they are under eighteen (18) years of age, the latter 
only for the time they are so incapacitated. If the dependent is 
attending a recognized educational institution, benefits shall be paid 
until twenty-two (22) years of age. (12) Actual Dependents. Actual dependents shall be entitled to take compensation in the order 
named in subsection (c), until sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 
2/3%) of the monthly wages of the deceased during the time specified in 
this chapter have been exhausted, but the total compensation to be paid 
to all actual dependents of a deceased employee shall not exceed in the 
aggregate the maximum weekly benefit. (13) Dependency Status Not Affected by Certain Assistance Payments.  Sums distributed under the Employment Security Law, compiled in chapter
 7 of this title; the Old-Age Assistance Law, compiled in title 71, 
chapter 2, part 2; the Aid to Dependent Children Law, compiled in title 
71, chapter 3, part 1; Aid to Blind Law, compiled in title 71, chapter 
4, part 1; the federal Social Security Act, compiled in 42 U.S.C. Â§ 301 
et seq., or any other public assistance distributed by the United States
 government, the state, or any county or municipality of the state, 
shall not be considered income within the meaning of this law and shall 
not affect the status or compensation of any person entitled to benefits
 as provided in this chapter.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 30; 1923, ch. 84, Â§ 1; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a181; 
Acts 1927, ch. 40, Â§ 3; Code 1932, Â§ 6883; Acts 1941, ch. 90, Â§ 8; 1943,
 ch. 110, Â§ 1; 1947, ch. 139, Â§ 10; 1949, ch. 277, Â§ 7; C. Supp. 1950, Â§
 6883; Acts 1953, ch. 111, Â§ 6; 1955, ch. 182, Â§ 9-16; 1957, ch. 270, 
Â§ 7, 8; 1959, ch. 172, Â§ 10, 11; 1963, ch. 362, Â§ 1; 1965, ch. 158, Â§ 
1; 1967, ch. 313, Â§ 1, 2; 1969, ch. 196, Â§ 1, 2; 1971, ch. 134, Â§ 1, 
2, 4; 1972, ch. 699, Â§ 3; 1973, ch. 379, Â§ 9; 1974, ch. 617, Â§ 6, 7; 
1975, ch. 86, Â§ 6, 7; 1977, ch. 354, Â§ 6; 1979, ch. 365, Â§ 6; 1979, ch.
 370, Â§ 1; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; Acts 1980, ch. 607, Â§ 9, 
10, 11; 1981, ch. 333, Â§ 9, 10; 1982, ch. 880, Â§ 9, 10; T.C.A. (orig. 
ed.), Â§ 50-1013; Acts 1985, ch. 393, Â§ 13.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-211.  Contribution to payment of compensation by two or more employers -- Agreement between employers.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-211. Contribution to 
payment of compensation by two or more employers -- Agreement between 
employers. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and 
after July 1, 2014.] (a) In 
case any employee for whose injury or death compensation is payable 
under this chapter, shall, at the time of injury, be employed and paid 
jointly by two (2) or more employers subject to this chapter, the 
employers shall contribute to the payment of the compensation in a 
proportion of their several wage liability to the employee.(b) If
 one (1) or more, but not all, of the employers are subject to this 
chapter, and otherwise subject to liability for compensation under this 
chapter, then the liability of those who are so subject shall be to pay 
the proportion of the entire compensation that their portion of the wage
 liability bears to the wages of the employee; provided, that nothing in
 this section shall prevent any agreement between the different 
employers between themselves as to the distribution of the ultimate 
burden of the compensation.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 29; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a180; Code 1932, Â§ 6882; 
impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1012.    




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-212.  Hernia or rupture.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-212. Hernia or rupture. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) In
 all claims for compensation for hernia or rupture, resulting from 
injury by accident arising primarily out of and in the course and scope 
of the employee's employment, it must be definitely proven to the 
satisfaction of the court that: (1) There was an injury resulting in hernia or rupture; (2) The hernia or rupture appeared suddenly; (3) It was accompanied by pain; (4) The hernia or rupture immediately followed the accident; and (5) The hernia or rupture did not exist prior to the accident for which compensation is claimed.(b) All
 hernia or rupture, inguinal, femoral or otherwise, so proven to be the 
result of an injury by accident arising primarily out of and in the 
course and scope of the employment, shall be treated in a surgical 
manner by a radical operation. If death results from the operation, the 
death shall be considered as the result of the injury, and compensation 
paid in accordance with this chapter.(c) (1) In
 case the injured employee refuses to undergo the radical operation for 
the cure of the hernia or rupture, no compensation will be allowed 
during the time the refusal continues. (2) If,
 however, it is shown that the employee has some chronic disease, or is 
otherwise in such physical condition that the court finds it unsafe for 
the employee to undergo the operation, the employee shall be paid 
compensation in accordance with this chapter.HISTORY: Acts 1941, ch. 90, Â§ 10; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6892.1 (Williams, Â§ 6892a); 
T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1009; Acts 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 57, 58.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-212.  Hernia or rupture.   [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-212. Hernia or rupture. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) In
 all claims for compensation for hernia or rupture, resulting from 
injury by accident arising out of and in the course of the employee's 
employment, it must be definitely proven to the satisfaction of the 
court that: (1) There was an injury resulting in hernia or rupture; (2) The hernia or rupture appeared suddenly; (3) It was accompanied by pain; (4) The hernia or rupture immediately followed the accident; and (5) The hernia or rupture did not exist prior to the accident for which compensation is claimed.(b) All
 hernia or rupture, inguinal, femoral or otherwise, so proven to be the 
result of an injury by accident arising out of and in the course of the 
employment, shall be treated in a surgical manner by a radical 
operation. If death results from the operation, the death shall be 
considered as the result of the injury, and compensation paid in 
accordance with this chapter.(c) (1) In
 case the injured employee refuses to undergo the radical operation for 
the cure of the hernia or rupture, no compensation will be allowed 
during the time the refusal continues. (2) If,
 however, it is shown that the employee has some chronic disease, or is 
otherwise in such physical condition that the court finds it unsafe for 
the employee to undergo the operation, the employee shall be paid 
compensation in accordance with this chapter.HISTORY: Acts 1941, ch. 90, Â§ 10; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6892.1 (Williams, Â§ 6892a); T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1009.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-213.  Epileptics -- Election not to be covered by certain provisions -- Revocation.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 




50-6-213. Epileptics -- Election not to be covered by certain 
provisions -- Revocation. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior 
to and on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) Epileptics
 may elect not to be subject to this part for injuries resulting because
 of epilepsy and still remain subject to its provisions for all other 
injuries.(b) This election shall be
 made by giving notice to the employer in writing on a form to be 
furnished by the division of workers' compensation and filing a copy of 
the notice with the division.(c) An
 election may be revoked by giving written notice to the employer of 
revocation, and the revocation shall be effective upon filing copy of 
the notice with the division.HISTORY: Acts 1977, ch. 223, Â§ 1; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A., Â§ 50-1029.







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-214.  Responsibility for payment of benefits and loss adjustment expenses between insurance carrier and self-insured employer.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-214. Responsibility
 for payment of benefits and loss adjustment expenses between insurance 
carrier and self-insured employer. [Applicable to injuries occurring on
 and after July 1, 2014.] (a) The
 administrator or the administrator's designee shall order appropriate 
workers' compensation benefits and loss adjustment expenses associated 
with the claim to be paid on an equal basis by the insurance carrier or 
carriers and the self-insured employer, as appropriate, in any case 
where: (1) (A) An employer changes insurance carriers; (B) The employer having been self-insured, becomes insured; or (C) The employer having been insured, is approved to be self-insured; and (2) One (1) of the following applies: (A) The compensability of the claim is not being disputed by the employer or carrier; or (B) A
 workers' compensation judge has determined the claim to be compensable 
or ordered the provision of benefits to an employee; and (3) There is a dispute as to which entity is responsible to provide workers' compensation benefits to a worker.(b) Upon
 an agreement by the parties or a court order as to which entity is 
responsible to pay the workers' compensation benefits to the employee, 
the entity responsible for the provision of workers' compensation 
benefits shall reimburse the other entity all moneys paid for or on 
behalf of the employee as ordered by the administrator or the 
administrator's designee, plus interest from the date of payment at the 
rate set by Â§ 47-14-121.HISTORY: Acts 2007, ch. 378, Â§ 1; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1, 7.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-214.  Responsibility for payment benefits and loss adjustment expenses between insurance carrier and self-insured employer.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-214. Responsibility
 for payment benefits and loss adjustment expenses between insurance 
carrier and self-insured employer. [Applicable to injuries occurring 
prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) The
 commissioner or the commissioner's designee shall order appropriate 
workers' compensation benefits and loss adjustment expenses associated 
with the claim to be paid on an equal basis by the insurance carrier or 
carriers and the self-insured employer, as appropriate, in any case 
where: (1) (A) An employer changes insurance carriers; (B) The employer having been self-insured, becomes insured; or (C) The employer having been insured, is approved to be self-insured; and (2) One (1) of the following applies: (A) The compensability of the claim is not being disputed by the employer or carrier; or (B) A
 workers' compensation specialist has determined the claim to be 
compensable or ordered the provision of benefits to an employee; and (3) There is a dispute as to which entity is responsible to provide workers' compensation benefits to a worker.(b) Upon
 an agreement by the parties or a court order as to which entity is 
responsible to pay the workers' compensation benefits to the employee, 
the entity responsible for the provision of workers' compensation 
benefits shall reimburse the other entity all moneys paid for or on 
behalf of the employee as ordered by the commissioner or the 
commissioner's designee, plus interest from the date of payment at the 
rate set by Â§ 47-14-121.HISTORY: Acts 2007, ch. 378, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-215.  Rental and assignment of PPO network rights.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-215. Rental and assignment
 of PPO network rights. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to
 and on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) This section may be referred to as the "Rental and Assignment of PPO Network Rights."(b) For purposes of this section, unless the context otherwise requires: (1) "Contracting
 agent" means any person that is in direct privity of contract with a 
medical provider to reimburse the medical provider for medical services 
provided to an injured worker pursuant to this chapter at rates other 
than those provided under the workers' compensation medical fee 
schedule. Nothing contained within this section shall be construed to 
permit the creation of preferred provider organization networks that 
permit payments above the medical fee schedule adopted by the 
department; and (2) "Workers' 
compensation payor" means an employer, workers' compensation trust, 
workers' compensation pool or insurer responsible pursuant to Â§ 50-6-405
 for paying a medical provider for the delivery of workers' compensation
 related healthcare services.(c) Every
 contracting agent that sells, leases, assigns, transfers, or conveys 
its list of contracted medical providers and their contracted 
reimbursement rates shall, upon entering or renewing a medical provider 
contract, do all of the following: (1) Disclose
 to the medical provider whether the list of contracted medical 
providers may be sold, leased, transferred, or conveyed to other payors 
or agents, including workers' compensation insurers or self insureds. 
The disclosure of the ability to sell, lease, transfer or convey the 
list or network of medical providers shall be in a section of a contract
 titled "assignment" or "assignability" or similar title; (2) Disclose
 whether workers' compensation payors to whom the list of contracted 
medical providers may be sold, leased, transferred, or conveyed may be 
permitted to pay a medical provider's contracted rate if less than the 
workers' compensation fee schedule. The disclosure of the ability to pay
 a medical provider's contracted rate, if less than the workers' 
compensation fee schedule, shall be in a section of a contract titled 
"assignment" or "assignability" or similar title; (3) Allow
 medical providers, upon the initial signing or renewal of a medical 
provider contract, to decline to participate in networks solely to serve
 workers' compensation payors that are sold, leased, transferred, or 
conveyed to workers' compensation payors; and (4) Maintain
 a web page that contains a complete listing of customers to whom the 
network is sold, leased, transferred or conveyed that is accessible to 
all contracted medical providers and updated at least twice a year, as 
well as maintain a toll-free telephone number accessible to all 
contracted medical providers whereby medical providers may access 
workers' compensation payor summary information and a list of lessees of
 the network.(d) (1) The 
explanation of payment (EOP) or explanation of review (EOR) transmitted 
to the medical provider shall delineate the following information: (A) Employer's name; (B) Injured worker's name; (C) Name
 of the workers' compensation payor and the name of the third party 
administrator if a third party administrator is utilized. If a third 
party administrator is utilized, then a telephone number for the third 
party administrator shall be delineated; otherwise, a telephone number 
for the workers' compensation payor shall be delineated; (D) Name
 and telephone number of the entity that analyzes the medical provider 
bill for the purpose of ensuring that the billed amount complies with 
the workers' compensation medical fee schedule; (E) Name
 and telephone number of the contracting agent that has a written 
medical provider contract signed by the medical provider whereby the 
contracting agent or a third party is entitled to access and pay rates 
other than those provided under the workers' compensation medical fee 
schedule; (F) Name and 
telephone number of the entity that analyzes the medical provider bill 
for the purpose of reducing the billed amount below the medical fee 
schedule pursuant to a preferred provider organization network contract,
 unless the entity is the same entity referenced in subdivision 
(d)(1)(E); (G) Amount billed by the medical provider; (H) Amount permitted by the workers' compensation fee schedule; and (I) Amount of payment. (2) Within
 twenty (20) calendar days of a medical provider submitting in writing 
to a workers' compensation payor an EOP or EOR that does not comply with
 subdivision (d)(1), the entity that originally generated the EOP or EOR
 shall issue to the medical provider a corrected EOP or EOR that 
complies with subdivision (d)(1). (3) A
 workers' compensation payor shall demonstrate that it is entitled to 
pay a contracted rate within thirty (30) days of receipt of a written 
request from a medical provider who has received a claim payment from 
the workers' compensation payor. The medical provider shall include in 
the request a statement explaining why the payment is not at the correct
 contracted rate for the services provided. The failure of the medical 
provider to include such a statement shall relieve the workers' 
compensation payor from the responsibility of demonstrating that it was 
entitled to pay the disputed contracted rate. A workers' compensation 
payor shall be deemed to have demonstrated that it is entitled to pay a 
contracted rate if it correctly identifies the contracting agent that 
originally entered into the contract with the medical provider to pay 
the claim at the contracted rate.HISTORY: Acts 2010, ch. 792, Â§ 2.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-216.  Ombudsman program. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] 
===================================================================



 

50-6-216. Ombudsman program. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]  (a) The
 administrator shall establish a workers' compensation ombudsman program
 to assist injured or disabled employees, persons claiming death 
benefits, employers, and other persons in protecting their rights, 
resolving disputes, and obtaining information available under workers' 
compensation laws. The ombudsman program shall be available only to 
those individuals or organizations that are not represented by an 
attorney in the claim for workers' compensation benefits.(b) No
 statement, discussion, evidence, allegation or other matter of legal 
significance that occurs in the presence of an ombudsman shall be 
admissible as evidence in any other proceeding.(c) The
 administrator may adopt rules and regulations consistent with this 
chapter in order to fulfill the purposes of this section in an orderly 
and efficient manner.(d) The 
division shall have authority to assess a civil penalty against any 
person or organization, with the exception of the state or a 
representative of the state, that refuses to cooperate with the services
 provided by an ombudsman as provided in Â§ 50-6-118.(e) (1) Any
 party that is not represented by legal counsel may request the services
 of a workers' compensation ombudsman by contacting the office of 
mediation services. (2) The ombudsman's authority shall include, but not be limited to, the following: (A) Meet
 with and provide information to unrepresented parties about the 
unrepresented party's rights and responsibilities under the law; (B) Explain the administrative process for resolving workers' compensation claims; (C) Investigate claims and attempt to resolve disputes without resort to alternative dispute resolution and court proceedings; (D) Communicate with all parties and providers in the claim; (E) Assist the parties in the completion of forms; and (F) Facilitate the exchange of medical records. (3) An ombudsman shall not provide legal advice. (4) An
 ombudsman shall not be called to testify in any proceeding and no 
statement or representation made to an ombudsman shall be considered by a
 workers' compensation judge for any purpose. (5) An
 unrepresented party has a right to consult with an ombudsman and 
receive services under this subsection. If the party receiving the 
services of an ombudsman obtains legal counsel pertaining to the case or
 dispute for which the services of an ombudsman were engaged, the party,
 or the party's counsel, shall immediately notify the division and the 
office of mediation services. Upon receipt of notice that the party has 
retained counsel, the ombudsman shall terminate all services.HISTORY: Acts 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 77; 2014, ch. 837, Â§ 1.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-217.  Workers' compensation appeals board. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] 
===================================================================



 

50-6-217. Workers' compensation appeals board. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]  (a) The
 administrator shall establish a workers' compensation appeals board, 
which shall be wholly separate from the court of workers' compensation 
claims, to review interlocutory and final orders entered by workers' 
compensation judges upon application of any party to a workers' 
compensation claim. (1) Any party
 aggrieved by an order for temporary disability or medical benefits or 
an order either awarding permanent disability or medical benefits or 
denying a claim for permanent disability or medical benefits issued by a
 workers' compensation judge may request review of the order by the 
workers' compensation appeals board by filing a request for appeal, on a
 form prescribed by the administrator. Review shall be accomplished in 
the following manner: (A) Within
 seven (7) business days after issuance of an interlocutory order for 
temporary disability or medical benefits by a workers' compensation 
judge, either party may request an appeal of the decision. Within seven 
(7) business days of receiving an appeal of an interlocutory order, the 
workers' compensation appeals board shall enter an order affirming, 
reversing, remanding, or modifying the decision of the workers' 
compensation judge. The workers' compensation appeals board's decision 
on an appeal of an interlocutory order shall not be subject to further 
review. (B) Within thirty (30)
 calendar days after issuance of a compensation order pursuant to Â§ 
50-6-239(c)(2), either party may request an appeal of the decision by 
filing a notice of appeal with the workers' compensation appeals board. 
Parties shall have fifteen (15) calendar days after an appeal is filed 
to file briefs with the workers' compensation appeals board. Within 
forty-five (45) calendar days after receiving an appeal of a 
compensation order, the workers' compensation appeals board shall issue a
 decision either affirming the judgment and certifying the workers' 
compensation judge's order as final or remanding the case. If judgment 
is affirmed, the final order of the workers' compensation judge shall be
 immediately appealable to the state supreme court. If a request for 
administrative review is timely filed, the order issued by the workers' 
compensation judge shall not become final, as provided in Â§ 
50-6-239(c)(7), until the workers' compensation appeals board issues a 
written decision certifying the order as a final order. (2) The
 workers' compensation appeals board may remand the decision of the 
workers' compensation judge, if the rights of the party seeking review 
have been prejudiced because findings, inferences, conclusions, or 
decisions of a workers' compensation judge: (A) Violate constitutional or statutory provisions; (B) Exceed the statutory authority of the workers' compensation judge; (C) Do not comply with lawful procedure; (D) Are arbitrary, capricious, characterized by abuse of discretion, or clearly unwarranted exercise of discretion; or (E) Are not supported by evidence that is both substantial and material in the light of the entire record.(b) This
 section shall have no effect on the procedures established for filing a
 claim for workers' compensation benefits in the division of claims 
administration, pursuant to Â§ 9-8-402, or in the claims commission, 
pursuant to Â§ 9-8-307. The workers' compensation appeals board shall 
have no jurisdiction over an appeal of a decision of a commissioner of 
the claims commission.(c) The 
decisions of the workers' compensation appeals board shall not be 
subject to judicial review pursuant to the Uniform Administrative 
Procedures Act, compiled in title 4, chapter 5.HISTORY: Acts 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 83.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-218.  Appointment of judges on the workers' compensation appeals board. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] 
===================================================================



 

50-6-218. Appointment of judges on the workers' compensation appeals
 board. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]  (a) (1) The
 governor, in consultation with the speaker of the house of 
representatives and the speaker of the senate, shall appoint three (3) 
qualified individuals to serve as judges on the workers' compensation 
appeals board. Each individual selected shall be a Tennessee licensed 
attorney, with at least seven (7) years' experience in workers' 
compensation matters, shall be at least thirty (30) years of age, and 
shall be required to attend annual training on workers' compensation 
laws. (2) Upon appointment, each 
judge of the workers' compensation appeals board shall serve a term of 
six (6) years and may be reappointed for an additional term by the 
governor upon expiration of the initial term. No judge appointed to the 
workers' compensation appeals board shall serve more than two (2) full 
terms, and service of more than half of a six (6) year term shall 
constitute service of one (1) full term. Any judge appointed to the 
workers' compensation appeals board to serve less than a full term to 
fill a vacancy created by the removal or resignation of a judge sitting 
on the workers' compensation appeals board shall be eligible to serve an
 additional two (2) full terms. In the initial appointment of judges to 
the workers' compensation appeals board, one (1) judge appointed shall 
serve a term of two (2) years, one (1) judge appointed shall serve a 
term of four (4) years, and one (1) judge appointed shall serve a term 
of six (6) years. (3) The 
governor shall have authority to remove a judge sitting on the workers' 
compensation appeals board during an unexpired term for the commission 
of any of the judicial offenses provided in Â§ 17-5-302. (4) Any
 person appointed to serve as a judge on the workers' compensation 
appeals board shall be required to take an oath or affirmation to 
support the constitutions of the United States and of this state, and to
 administer justice without respect of persons, and impartially to 
discharge all the duties incumbent upon a judge to the best of the 
judge's skill and ability. The oath may be taken before another workers'
 compensation judge, any inferior court judge, a retired judge, a 
retired chancellor or an active or retired judge of the court of general
 sessions. (5) No person 
appointed to serve as a judge on the workers' compensation appeals board
 shall practice law, or perform any of the functions of attorney or 
counsel, in any of the courts of this state, except in cases in which 
the judge may have been employed as counsel previous to the appointment 
as a judge on the workers' compensation appeals board. A newly appointed
 judge on the workers' compensation appeals board can practice law only 
in an effort to wind up the judge's practice and must end the practice 
of law as soon as reasonably possible and in no event longer than one 
hundred eighty (180) days after assuming the position of judge on the 
workers' compensation appeals board.HISTORY: Acts 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 80; 2014, ch. 837, Â§ 2.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-219.  Education and training program for workers' compensation mediators, judges, chief judge, ombudsman and judges of the workers' compensation appeals board. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] 
===================================================================



 

50-6-219. Education and training program for workers' compensation 
mediators, judges, chief judge, ombudsman and judges of the workers' 
compensation appeals board. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and 
after July 1, 2014.]  The 
administrator shall institute and maintain an education and training 
program for workers' compensation mediators, workers' compensation 
judges, the chief judge, ombudsmen, and the judges of the workers' 
compensation appeals board in order to assure that these persons 
maintain current and appropriate skills and knowledge in performing 
their duties. Before assuming their duties, all persons selected to 
serve or appointed as workers' compensation mediators, workers' 
compensation judges, the chief judge, ombudsmen, or as judge of the 
workers' compensation appeals board shall be provided formal training 
and education, which shall include training on the department's workers'
 compensation system, the Tennessee workers' compensation statutes and 
case law, and the rules and regulations of the division of workers' 
compensation. In addition, such persons shall attend at least seven (7) 
hours of training each year that is focused on workers' compensation 
statutes and case law, and the rules and regulations of the division of 
workers' compensation.HISTORY: Acts 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 81.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation---> 50-6-220.  [Reserved.]
===================================================================



 




50-6-220. [Reserved.] 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-221.  Receipts for payments.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-221. Receipts for payments. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) Whenever
 payment of compensation is made to a surviving spouse for the surviving
 spouse's use, or for the surviving spouse's use and the use of a child 
or children, the written receipt of the payment by the surviving spouse 
shall acquit the employer in this and all other jurisdictions of the 
entire injury and all its damages.(b) Whenever
 payment is made to any person eighteen (18) years of age or over, the 
written receipt of the person shall acquit the employer in this and all 
other jurisdictions of the entire injury and all its damages.(c) (1) Whenever
 payment is made to a person under eighteen (18) years of age, or to a 
dependent child as defined in Â§ 50-6-210(b) over eighteen (18) years of 
age, the payment shall be paid to a duly and regularly appointed 
guardian or trustee of the child, and the receipt of the guardian or 
trustee shall acquit the employer in this and all other jurisdictions of
 the entire injury and all its damages and shall be in lieu of any claim
 of the parents of the child or minor for loss of services. (2) Where
 the amount of compensation due a person under eighteen (18) years of 
age does not exceed the sum of two hundred fifty dollars ($250), the 
court may, in its discretion, direct the amount of compensation due the 
minor be paid as provided by title 34, chapter 1.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 7; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a156; Code 1932, Â§ 6858; 
Acts 1947, ch. 139, Â§ 3; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6858; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 
50-1014; Acts 1997, ch. 368, Â§ 1-3.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-222.  Preference or priority of rights of compensation.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-222. Preference or priority of rights of compensation. 
 [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 
1, 2014.] All rights of compensation 
granted by this chapter shall have the same preference or priority for 
the whole thereof against the assets of the employer as is allowed by 
law for any unpaid wages for labor.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 17; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a166; Code 1932, Â§ 6868; Acts 1972, ch. 699, Â§ 4; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1015.      


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-223.  Exemption and nonassignability of compensation claims -- Exceptions to nonassignability.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-223. Exemption
 and nonassignability of compensation claims -- Exceptions to 
nonassignability. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and 
on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) No
 claim for compensation under this chapter shall be assignable, and all 
compensation and claims for compensation shall be exempt from claims of 
creditors.(b) Notwithstanding 
subsection (a), compensation made by periodic payments shall be subject 
to income assignment for payment of support as provided by title 36, 
chapter 5, part 5 and Â§ 50-2-105.(c) Notwithstanding
 subsection (a), the department of human services shall have a lien on 
any lump-sum settlements for the collection of current or overdue 
support as defined by Â§ 36-5-113, and may enforce the lien as provided 
by title 36, chapter 5, part 9.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 17; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a167; Code 1932, Â§ 6869; 
T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1016; Acts 1991, ch. 224, Â§ 1; 1998, ch. 1098, Â§
 61.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-224.  Limitation of actions.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-224. Limitation of actions. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) The
 time within which the following acts shall be performed under this 
chapter shall be limited to the following periods, respectively: (1) Actions
 or proceedings by an injured employee to determine or recover 
compensation: one (1) year after the occurrence of the injury, except as
 provided in Â§ 50-6-203; (2) Actions
 or proceedings by dependents to determine or recover compensation: one 
(1) year after the date of notice in writing given by the employer to 
the division of workers' compensation, stating the employer's 
willingness to pay compensation when it is shown that the death is one 
for which compensation is payable. In case the deceased was a native of a
 foreign country and leaves no known dependent or dependents within the 
United States, it shall be the duty of the commissioner to give written 
notice forthwith of the death to the consul or other representative of 
the foreign country residing within the state; (3) Proceedings
 to obtain judgment in case of default of employer for thirty (30) days 
to pay any compensation due under any settlement or determination: one 
(1) year after the default; and (4) In
 case of physical or mental incapacity, other than minority, of the 
injured person or the injured person's dependents to perform or cause to
 be performed any act required within the time in this section 
specified: the period of limitation in those cases shall be extended for
 one (1) year from the date when the incapacity ceases.(b) This
 section applies only to injuries that arise on or before December 31, 
2004, and shall have no applicability to injuries that arise on or after
 January 1, 2005.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 31; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a182; Acts 1927, ch. 40, Â§
 4; Code 1932, Â§ 6884; Acts 1947, ch. 139, Â§ 11; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6884; 
impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1017; Acts 
1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 15.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-225.  Appeal if dissatisfied or aggrieved by judgment.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-225. Appeal if dissatisfied or aggrieved by judgment. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) Any
 party to the proceedings in the court of workers' compensation claims 
may, if dissatisfied or aggrieved by the judgment of that court, appeal 
to the supreme court, where the cause shall be heard and determined as 
provided in the Tennessee Rules of Appellate Procedure. (2) Review
 of the workers' compensation court's findings of fact shall be de novo 
upon the record of the workers' compensation court, accompanied by a 
presumption of the correctness of the finding, unless the preponderance 
of the evidence is otherwise. (3) The
 supreme court may, by order, refer workers' compensation cases to a 
panel known as the special workers' compensation appeals panel. This 
panel shall consist of three (3) judges designated by the chief justice,
 at least one (1) of whom shall be a member of the supreme court. (4) Any
 case that the supreme court by order or rule refers to the special 
workers' compensation appeals panel shall be briefed, and oral argument 
shall be heard pursuant to the Tennessee Rules of Appellate Procedure as
 if the appeal were being heard by the entire supreme court. (5) (A) The
 special workers' compensation appeals panel shall reduce to writing its
 findings and conclusions in all cases. The decision of the panel shall 
become the judgment of the supreme court thirty (30) days after it is 
issued unless: (i) Any 
member of the supreme court files with the clerk a written request 
within the thirty-day period that the case be heard by the entire 
supreme court, in which event a final judgment will not be entered until
 the supreme court, after due consideration of the case, enters final 
judgment; or (ii) Any party
 to the appeal files a motion requesting review by the entire supreme 
court within fifteen (15) days after issuance of the decision by the 
panel, in which event a final judgment will not be entered: (a) Until the motion is denied; or (b) If the motion is granted, until the supreme court enters final judgment after its consideration of the case. (B) For
 purposes of this subsection (a), a decision of the panel shall be 
deemed to be issued on the day it is mailed to the parties, which date 
shall be noted on the decision by the clerk. Section 27-1-122 applies to
 all motions made pursuant to this subsection (a).(b) Appeal of all cases under this chapter shall be expedited by: (1) Giving the cases priority over all cases on the appellate dockets; and (2) Allowing
 any case on appeal in the supreme court to be on motion of either party
 transferred to the division where the supreme court is then or will 
next be in session.(c) (1) If
 the judgment or decree is appealed pursuant to subsection (a), interest
 on the judgment or decree shall be computed from the date that the 
judgment is entered by the court of workers' compensation claims at an 
annual rate as defined in Â§ 47-14-121. For purposes of calculating the 
accrual of interest pursuant to this subdivision (c)(1), the average 
prime loan rate on the day the judgment or decree is entered by the 
trial court shall be used. (2) Total judgment awarded is computed by the total number of weeks multiplied by the benefit rate without any reduction.(d) When
 a reviewing court determines pursuant to motion or sua sponte that the 
appeal of an employer or insurer is frivolous, or taken for purposes of 
delay, a penalty may be assessed by the court, without remand, against 
the appellant for a liquidated amount.(e) When
 a reviewing court determines pursuant to motion or sua sponte that the 
appeal of an employee is frivolous, a penalty may be assessed by the 
court, without remand, against the appellant for a liquidated amount.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 32; Shan. Supp. Â§ 3608a1821/2; Code 1932, Â§ 6885;
 Acts 1941, ch. 90, Â§ 9; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6885; Acts 1969, ch. 311, Â§ 1;
 1981, ch. 449, Â§ 2; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1018; Acts 1985, ch. 393, 
Â§ 14, 15, 23; 1988, ch. 630, Â§ 1, 2; 1992, ch. 952, Â§ 7, 8; 1996, ch.
 944, Â§ 16; 1997, ch. 150, Â§ 1; 1998, ch. 1024, Â§ 14; 1999, ch. 336, Â§ 
1, 2; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2000, ch. 678, Â§ 1; 2000, ch. 739, Â§ 1; 2000,
 ch. 852, Â§ 7, 8; 2001, ch. 117, Â§ 1; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 16, 49; 2005, 
ch. 28, Â§ 1; 2006, ch. 703, Â§ 1; 2008, ch. 1183, Â§ 5, 6; 2012, ch. 
1030, Â§ 1; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 60.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-225.  Submission of claim to court upon failure to agree on compensation -- Special workers' compensation appeals panel -- Impasse.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-225. Submission
 of claim to court upon failure to agree on compensation -- Special 
workers' compensation appeals panel -- Impasse. [Applicable to injuries
 occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) Notwithstanding
 any provisions of this chapter to the contrary, in case of a dispute 
over or failure to agree upon compensation under this chapter, between 
the employer and employee or the dependent or dependents of the 
employee, the parties shall first submit the dispute to the benefit 
review conference process provided by the division of workers' 
compensation. (2) (A) In 
the event the parties are unable to reach an agreement at the benefit 
review conference as to all issues related to the claim or the benefit 
review conference process is otherwise exhausted pursuant to rules 
promulgated by the commissioner, either party may file a civil action as
 provided in Â§ 50-6-203 in the circuit or chancery court in the county 
in which the employee resided at the time of the alleged injury or in 
which the alleged injury occurred. In instances where the employee 
resides outside of the state and where the injury occurs outside of the 
state, the complaint shall be filed in any county where the employer 
maintains an office. (B) If 
the parties are unable to reach an agreement at the benefit review 
conference as to all issues related to the claim or the benefit review 
conference process is otherwise exhausted pursuant to rules promulgated 
by the commissioner, and if the employer is a county or a municipal 
corporation that has accepted the provisions of this chapter, either 
party may file a civil action in the county in which the governmental 
entity is located or in the county in which the incident occurred from 
which the civil action arises. (3) Neither party in a civil action filed pursuant to this section shall have the right to demand a jury.(b) The
 Tennessee Rules of Civil Procedure and the Tennessee Rules of Evidence 
apply to all civil actions filed pursuant to this section.(c) Unless
 required to be filed by an earlier date as a result of discovery 
requests pursuant to the Tennessee Rules of Civil Procedure, within 
sixty (60) days after the filing of an answer in an action under this 
section, the employer shall file with the court a wage statement 
detailing the employee's wages for the previous fifty-two (52) weeks, 
unless the employer stipulates that the maximum weekly workers' 
compensation rate applies in the particular action.(d) Whenever
 any civil action is brought pursuant to this section, the judge or 
chancellor may, if the judge or chancellor so desires, visit the scene 
of the accident and examine the surroundings.(e) (1) Any
 party to the proceedings in the circuit or chancery court may, if 
dissatisfied or aggrieved by the judgment or decree of that court, 
appeal to the supreme court, where the cause shall be heard and 
determined as provided in the Tennessee Rules of Appellate Procedure. (2) Review
 of the trial court's findings of fact shall be de novo upon the record 
of the trial court, accompanied by a presumption of the correctness of 
the finding, unless the preponderance of the evidence is otherwise. (3) The
 supreme court may, by order, refer workers' compensation cases to a 
panel known as the special workers' compensation appeals panel. This 
panel shall consist of three (3) judges designated by the chief justice,
 at least one (1) of whom shall be a member of the supreme court. (4) Any
 case that the supreme court by order or rule refers to the special 
workers' compensation appeals panel shall be briefed, and oral argument 
shall be heard pursuant to the Tennessee Rules of Appellate Procedure as
 if the appeal were being heard by the entire supreme court. (5) (A) The
 special workers' compensation appeals panel shall reduce to writing its
 findings and conclusions in all cases. The decision of the panel shall 
become the judgment of the supreme court thirty (30) days after it is 
issued unless: (i) Any 
member of the supreme court files with the clerk a written request 
within the thirty-day period that the case be heard by the entire 
supreme court, in which event a final judgment will not be entered until
 the supreme court, after due consideration of the case, enters final 
judgment; or (ii) Any party
 to the appeal files a motion requesting review by the entire supreme 
court within fifteen (15) days after issuance of the decision by the 
panel, in which event a final judgment will not be entered: (a) Until the motion is denied; or (b) If the motion is granted, until the supreme court enters final judgment after its consideration of the case. (B) For
 purposes of this subsection (e), a decision of the panel shall be 
deemed to be issued on the day it is mailed to the parties, which date 
shall be noted on the decision by the clerk. Section 27-1-122 applies to
 all motions made pursuant to this subsection (e). (6) If
 the entire supreme court, on its own motion or after granting the 
motion of a party, reviews an opinion of the special workers' 
compensation appeals panel, its review will be limited to the record and
 the briefs on file before the special workers' compensation appeals 
panel; provided, that the supreme court may, in its discretion, order 
the parties to further brief the issues or appear at oral argument.(f) The trial of all cases under this chapter shall be expedited by: (1) Giving the cases priority over all cases on the trial and appellate dockets; and (2) Allowing
 any case on appeal in the supreme court to be on motion of either party
 transferred to the division where the supreme court is then or will 
next be in session.(g) (1) If
 the judgment or decree of a court is appealed pursuant to subsection 
(e), interest on the judgment or decree shall be computed from the date 
that the judgment or decree is entered by the trial court at an annual 
rate of interest five (5) percentage points above the average prime loan
 rate for the most recent week for which such an average rate has been 
published by the board of governors of the federal reserve system on the
 total judgment awarded by the supreme court. For purposes of 
calculating the accrual of interest pursuant to this subdivision (g)(1),
 the average prime loan rate on the day the judgment or decree is 
entered by the trial court shall be used. (2) Total judgment awarded is computed by the total number of weeks multiplied by the benefit rate without any reduction. (3) For
 purposes of determining the amount of interest that has accrued on a 
judgment or decree, the commissioner of financial institutions shall 
maintain a listing of the average prime loan rate as it becomes 
available each month, and the commissioner of financial institutions 
shall respond to inquiries concerning what the average prime rate was on
 a given month and year. If the person making the inquiry so requests, 
the commissioner shall send the person a letter certifying what the 
average prime rate was on the month and year requested. The commissioner
 is authorized to charge a reasonable fee not to exceed ten dollars 
($10.00) for preparing and sending the letter. (4) For purposes of this subsection (g), "judgment" and "decree" includes any discretionary costs awarded pursuant to this chapter.(h) When
 a reviewing court determines pursuant to motion or sua sponte that the 
appeal of an employer or insurer is frivolous, or taken for purposes of 
delay, a penalty may be assessed by the court, without remand, against 
the appellant for a liquidated amount.(i) When
 a reviewing court determines pursuant to motion or sua sponte that the 
appeal of an employee is frivolous, a penalty may be assessed by the 
court, without remand, against the appellant for a liquidated amount.(j) If
 an employer wrongfully fails to pay an employee's claim for temporary 
total disability payments, the employer shall be liable, in the 
discretion of the court, to pay the employee, in addition to the amount 
due for temporary total disability payments, a sum not exceeding 
twenty-five percent (25%) of the temporary total disability claim; 
provided, that it is made to appear to the court that the refusal to pay
 the claim was not in good faith and that the failure to pay inflicted 
additional expense, loss or injury upon the employee; and provided, 
further, that the additional liability shall be measured by the 
additional expense thus entailed.(k) If,
 on request by the specialist, a party fails to produce documents, to 
cooperate in scheduling a conference or to provide a representative 
authorized to settle a matter in attendance at a conference, then a 
specialist may declare an impasse and file the report on unresolved 
issues with a court. On the motion of either party or on the court's own
 motion, a court is authorized, but not required, to hold a hearing on 
the failure to produce documents requested by the specialist, to 
cooperate in scheduling or to provide a representative who possessed 
settlement authority. If the court determines that the failure lacked 
good cause or resulted from bad faith, then the court may assess the 
offending party who failed to take the requested action with attorney's 
fees and costs related only to the trial. The commissioner is authorized
 to promulgate rules to effectuate the purposes of this subsection (k) 
in accordance with the Uniform Administrative Procedures Act, compiled 
in title 4, chapter 5.(l) If an 
employee receives a settlement, judgment or decree under this chapter 
that includes the payment of medical expenses and the employer or 
workers' compensation carrier wrongfully fails to reimburse an employee 
for any medical expenses actually paid by the employee within sixty (60)
 days of the settlement, judgment or decree, or fails to provide 
reasonable and necessary medical expenses and treatment, including 
failure to reimburse for reasonable and necessary medical expenses, in 
bad faith after receiving reasonable notice of their obligation to 
provide the medical treatment, the employer or workers' compensation 
carrier shall be liable, in the discretion of the court, to pay the 
employee, in addition to the amount due for medical expenses paid, a sum
 not exceeding twenty-five percent (25%) of the expenses; provided, that
 it is made to appear to the court that the refusal to pay the claim was
 not in good faith and that the failure to pay inflicted additional 
expense, loss or injury upon the employee.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 32; Shan. Supp. Â§ 3608a1821/2; Code 1932, Â§ 6885;
 Acts 1941, ch. 90, Â§ 9; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6885; Acts 1969, ch. 311, Â§ 1;
 1981, ch. 449, Â§ 2; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1018; Acts 1985, ch. 393, 
Â§ 14, 15, 23; 1988, ch. 630, Â§ 1, 2; 1992, ch. 952, Â§ 7, 8; 1996, ch.
 944, Â§ 16; 1997, ch. 150, Â§ 1; 1998, ch. 1024, Â§ 14; 1999, ch. 336, Â§ 
1, 2; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2000, ch. 678, Â§ 1; 2000, ch. 739, Â§ 1; 2000,
 ch. 852, Â§ 7, 8; 2001, ch. 117, Â§ 1; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 16, 49; 2005, 
ch. 28, Â§ 1; 2006, ch. 703, Â§ 1; 2008, ch. 1183, Â§ 5, 6; 2012, ch. 
1030, Â§ 1.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-226.  Fees of attorneys and physicians, and hospital charges.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-226. Fees
 of attorneys and physicians, and hospital charges. [Applicable to 
injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) The
 fees of attorneys for services to employees under this chapter, shall 
be subject to the approval of the workers' compensation judge before 
which the matter is pending, as appropriate; provided, that no 
attorney's fees to be charged employees shall be in excess of twenty 
percent (20%) of the amount of the recovery or award to be paid by the 
party employing the attorney. The department shall deem the attorney's 
fee to be reasonable if the fee does not exceed twenty percent (20%) of 
the award to the injured worker, or, in cases governed by Â§ 50-6-207(4),
 twenty percent (20%) of the first four hundred fifty (450) weeks of the
 award. All attorney's fees for attorneys representing employers shall 
be subject to review for reasonableness of the fee and shall be subject 
to approval by a workers' compensation judge when the fee exceeds ten 
thousand dollars ($10,000). (2) (A) Medical
 costs that have been voluntarily paid by the employer or its insurer 
shall not be included in determining the award for purposes of 
calculating the attorney's fee. (B) [Deleted by 2013 amendment, effective July 1, 2014.] (C) In
 cases that proceed to trial, an employee's attorney shall file an 
application for approval of a proposed attorney's fee. Where the award 
of an attorney's fee exceeds ten thousand dollars ($10,000), the court 
shall make specific findings as to the factors that justify the fee as 
provided in Tennessee Supreme Court Rule 8, RPC 1.5. (D) The
 final order or settlement in all workers' compensation cases shall set 
out the attorney portion of the award in both dollar and percentage 
terms and the required findings. (3) In
 accident cases that result in death of an employee, the plaintiff's 
attorney's fees shall not exceed reasonable payment for actual time and 
expenses incurred when the employer makes a voluntary settlement offer 
in writing to dependents or survivors eligible under Â§ 50-6-210 within 
thirty (30) days of the employee's death if the employer offers to 
provide the dependents or survivors with all the benefits provided under
 this chapter. The approving authority shall review and approve the 
settlements on an expedited basis. (4) The
 fees of physicians and charges of hospitals for services to employees 
under this chapter, shall be subject to the approval of the 
administrator or the court before which the matter is pending, as 
appropriate, as provided in this subdivision (a)(4). Unless a medical 
fee or charge is contested, the department shall deem it to be 
reasonable. If a fee or charge is contested, the department shall permit
 a party to seek review only of the contested fee or charge in any court
 with jurisdiction to hear a matter pursuant to Â§ 50-6-225. A court may 
review the case solely for the purpose of approving the fees and charges
 that are reasonable.(b) The 
charging or receiving of any fee by an attorney in violation of 
subsection (a) shall be deemed unlawful practice and render the attorney
 liable to disbarment; and, further, the attorney shall forfeit double 
the entire amount retained by the attorney, to be recovered as in case 
of debt by the injured person or the injured person's creditor.(c) (1) The
 fees charged to the claimant by the treating physician or a specialist 
to whom the employee was referred for giving testimony by oral 
deposition relative to the claim shall, unless the interests of justice 
require otherwise, be considered a part of the costs of the case, to be 
charged against the employer when the employee is the prevailing party. (2) The
 workers' compensation judge shall have the discretion to determine the 
reasonableness of the fee charged by any physician pursuant to this 
subsection (c). (3) This subsection (c) applies only to workers' compensation actions arising on or after July 1, 1988.(d) In
 addition to any attorneys' fees provided for in this section, the court
 of workers' compensation claims may award attorneys' fees and 
reasonable costs, including reasonable and necessary court reporter 
expenses and expert witness fees for depositions and trials incurred 
when the employer fails to furnish appropriate medical, surgical and 
dental treatment or care, medicine, medical and surgical supplies, 
crutches, artificial members and other apparatus to an employee provided
 for in a settlement or judgment under this chapter.(e) A
 health care provider shall not employ a collection agency or make a 
report to a credit bureau concerning a private claim against an employer
 for all or part of the costs of medical care provided to an employee 
that are not paid by the employer's workers' compensation insurer 
without having first given notice of the dispute to the medical payment 
committee. The medical director may include the insurer in the 
administrative process.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 33; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a183; Code 1932, Â§ 6886, 
6887; Acts 1957, ch. 121, Â§ 1; 1963, ch. 333, Â§ 2; impl. am. Acts 1980, 
ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1019, 50-1020; Acts 1988, ch. 
865, Â§ 1-3; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 17; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2003, ch. 112, Â§ 
4; 2007, ch. 300, Â§ 2, 3; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 61-64.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-226.  Fees of attorneys and physicians, and hospital charges.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-226. Fees of attorneys and physicians, and hospital charges. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) The
 fees of attorneys for services to employees under this chapter, shall 
be subject to the approval of the commissioner or the court before which
 the matter is pending, as appropriate; provided, that no attorney's 
fees to be charged employees shall be in excess of twenty percent (20%) 
of the amount of the recovery or award to be paid by the party employing
 the attorney. All attorney's fees for attorneys representing employers 
shall be subject to review for reasonableness of the fee and shall be 
subject to approval by a court when the fee exceeds ten thousand dollars
 ($10,000). (2) (A) Medical
 costs that have been voluntarily paid by the employer or its insurer 
shall not be included in determining the award for purposes of 
calculating the attorney's fee. (B) For
 cases submitted to the department for approval pursuant to Â§ 
50-6-206(c) that are resolved prior to trial or pursuant to a benefit 
review conference, the department shall deem the attorney's fee to be 
reasonable if the fee does not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the award 
to the injured worker, or, in cases governed by Â§ 50-6-207(4), twenty 
percent (20%) of the first four hundred (400) weeks of the award. (C) In
 cases that proceed to trial, an employee's attorney shall file an 
application for approval of a proposed attorney's fee. Where the award 
of an attorney's fee exceeds ten thousand dollars ($10,000), the court 
shall make specific findings as to the factors that justify the fee as 
provided in Tennessee Supreme Court Rule 8, RPC 1.5. (D) The
 final order or settlement in all workers' compensation cases shall set 
out the attorney portion of the award in both dollar and percentage 
terms and the required findings. (3) In
 accident cases that result in death of an employee, the plaintiff's 
attorney's fees shall not exceed reasonable payment for actual time and 
expenses incurred when the employer makes a voluntary settlement offer 
in writing to dependents or survivors eligible under Â§ 50-6-210 within 
thirty (30) days of the employee's death if the employer offers to 
provide the dependents or survivors with all the benefits provided under
 this chapter. The approving authority shall review and approve the 
settlements on an expedited basis. (4) The
 fees of physicians and charges of hospitals for services to employees 
under this chapter, shall be subject to the approval of the commissioner
 or the court before which the matter is pending, as appropriate, as 
provided in this subdivision (a)(4). Unless a medical fee or charge is 
contested, the department shall deem it to be reasonable. If a fee or 
charge is contested, the department shall permit a party to seek review 
only of the contested fee or charge in any court with jurisdiction to 
hear a matter pursuant to Â§ 50-6-225. A court may review the case solely
 for the purpose of approving the fees and charges that are reasonable.(b) The
 charging or receiving of any fee by an attorney in violation of 
subsection (a) shall be deemed unlawful practice and render the attorney
 liable to disbarment; and, further, the attorney shall forfeit double 
the entire amount retained by the attorney, to be recovered as in case 
of debt by the injured person or the injured person's creditor.(c) (1) The
 fees charged to the claimant by the treating physician or a specialist 
to whom the employee was referred for giving testimony by oral 
deposition relative to the claim shall, unless the interests of justice 
require otherwise, be considered a part of the costs of the case, to be 
charged against the employer when the employee is the prevailing party. (2) The
 trial judge shall have the discretion to determine the reasonableness 
of the fee charged by any physician pursuant to this subsection (c). (3) This subsection (c) apply only to workers' compensation actions arising on or after July 1, 1988.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 33; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a183; Code 1932, Â§ 6886, 
6887; Acts 1957, ch. 121, Â§ 1; 1963, ch. 333, Â§ 2; impl. am. Acts 1980, 
ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1019, 50-1020; Acts 1988, ch. 
865, Â§ 1-3; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 17; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2003, ch. 112, Â§ 
4; 2007, ch. 300, Â§ 2, 3.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-227.  Alien dependents of deceased employee -- Payment to consular officer or representative -- Bond -- List of dependents.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-227. Alien dependents of deceased employee -- Payment to 
consular officer or representative -- Bond -- List of dependents. 
 [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) (A) In
 the event compensation is payable due to the death of an employee under
 this chapter, and the decedent leaves an alien dependent or dependents 
residing outside of the United States, a workers' compensation 
specialist is authorized to conduct a benefit review conference to 
attempt to resolve the issues; provided, that a representative or 
representatives of the employer and a duly authorized representative or 
representatives of the consul or other representative of the foreign 
country in which the dependent or dependents resides are present. In the
 event a settlement agreement is reached, the commissioner or 
commissioner's designee is authorized to approve the settlement, and the
 order of the commissioner or the commissioner's designee shall be 
entitled to the same standing as a judgment of a court of record for all
 purposes. In the event the parties are unable to reach an agreement at 
the benefit review conference, the employer or employee's representative
 may file a complaint in the circuit or chancery court that would have 
jurisdiction of the matter pursuant to Â§ 50-6-225 requesting the court 
to hear and determine the matter. (B) The
 commissioner, or commissioner's designee, or the court shall order 
payment of any compensation due from the employer to be made to the duly
 accredited consular officer of the country of which the beneficiaries 
are citizens. The consular officer or the consular officer's 
representative shall be fully authorized and empowered by this law to 
settle all claims for compensation and to receive the compensation for 
distribution to the persons entitled to the compensation. (2) The
 distribution of funds in cases described in subdivision (a)(1) shall be
 made only upon the order of the commissioner, the commissioner's 
designee, or the court that heard the matter. If required to do so by 
the commissioner, the commissioner's designee, or the court, the 
consular officer or the consular officer's representative shall execute a
 good and sufficient bond to be approved by the commissioner, the 
commissioner's designee, or the court, conditioned upon the faithful 
accounting of the moneys so received by the consular officer or the 
consular officer's representative. Before the bond is discharged a 
verified statement of receipts and disbursements of the moneys shall be 
made and filed with the commissioner or the court, as appropriate.(b) The
 consular officer or the consular officer's representative shall, before
 receiving the first payment of the compensation, and at reasonable 
times thereafter, upon the request of the employer, furnish to the 
employer a sworn statement containing a list of the dependents with the 
name, age, residence, extent of dependency and relation to the deceased 
of each dependent.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 34; Shan. Supp. Â§ 3608a184; Code 1932, Â§ 6888; 
impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1021; Acts 
2004, ch. 962, Â§ 17.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-228.  Copies of settlements and releases -- Filing.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-228. Copies of settlements and releases -- Filing. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] Copies
 of all settlements and releases shall be filed by the employer with the
 division of workers' compensation, within ten (10) days after the 
settlements are made, and shall become part of the permanent records of 
the division.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 35; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a185; Acts 1927, ch. 40, Â§
 5; Code 1932, Â§ 6889; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. 
ed.), Â§ 50-1022; Acts 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41.   

















===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-229.  Commutation to lump sum payment with consent of court.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-229. Commutation to lump sum payment with consent of court. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) The
 amounts of compensation payable periodically under this chapter may be 
commuted to one (1) or more lump sum payments. These may be commuted 
upon motion of any party subject to the approval of the circuit, 
chancery or criminal court. No agreed stipulation or order or any 
agreement by the employer and employee or any other party to the 
proceeding shall be a prerequisite to the court's approval or 
disapproval of the award being paid in one (1) or more lump sum 
payments. In making the commutation, the lump sum payment shall, in the 
aggregate, amount to a sum of all future installments of compensation. 
No settlement or compromise shall be made except on the terms provided 
in this chapter. In determining whether to commute an award, the trial 
court shall consider whether the commutation will be in the best 
interest of the employee, and the court shall also consider the ability 
of the employee to wisely manage and control the commuted award, 
regardless of whether special needs exist. Attorneys' fees may be paid 
as a partial lump sum from any award when approved and ordered by the 
trial judge.(b) All settlements of 
compensation by agreement of the parties and all awards of compensation 
made by the court of workers' compensation claims, when the amount paid 
or to be paid in settlement or by award does not exceed the compensation
 for twenty-six (26) weeks of disability, shall be final and not subject
 to readjustment.(c) All amounts 
paid by the employer and received by the employee or the employee's 
dependents, by lump sum payments, shall be final, but the amount of any 
award payable periodically for more than twenty-six (26) weeks may be 
modified as follows: (1) At any time by agreement of the parties and approval by the court; or (2) If
 the parties do not agree, then at any time after twenty-six (26) weeks 
from the date of the award, either party may file an application to the 
court of workers' compensation claims, on the ground of increase or 
decrease of incapacity due solely to the injury.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 36; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a186; Code 1932, Â§ 6890; 
Acts 1947, ch. 139, Â§ 12; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6890; Acts 1971, ch. 300, Â§ 
2; 1979, ch. 295, Â§ 1; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. 
ed.), Â§ 50-1023; Acts 1983, ch. 217, Â§ 5; 1985, ch. 393, Â§ 16; 1990, ch.
 843, Â§ 1; 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 25; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 
67, 68.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-229.  Commutation to lump sum payment with consent of court.   [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-229. Commutation to lump sum payment with consent of court. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) The
 amounts of compensation payable periodically under this chapter may be 
commuted to one (1) or more lump sum payments. These may be commuted 
upon motion of any party subject to the approval of the circuit, 
chancery or criminal court. No agreed stipulation or order or any 
agreement by the employer and employee or any other party to the 
proceeding shall be a prerequisite to the court's approval or 
disapproval of the award being paid in one (1) or more lump sum 
payments. In making the commutation, the lump sum payment shall, in the 
aggregate, amount to a sum of all future installments of compensation. 
No settlement or compromise shall be made except on the terms provided 
in this chapter. In determining whether to commute an award, the trial 
court shall consider whether the commutation will be in the best 
interest of the employee, and the court shall also consider the ability 
of the employee to wisely manage and control the commuted award, 
regardless of whether special needs exist. Attorneys' fees may be paid 
as a partial lump sum from any award when approved and ordered by the 
trial judge.(b) (1) Certified
 copies of the pleadings, orders, judgments and decrees, whereby any 
lump sum payment settlement has been approved by the court, shall be 
forwarded to the division of workers' compensation by the employer 
within ten (10) days after the entry of any final judgment in the 
proceeding. (2) The administrator
 shall have thirty (30) days after the receipt of the certified copies 
of the proceedings within which to intervene in the lump sum settlement 
proceedings to secure a readjustment of the lump sum in accordance with 
the requirements and provisions of this law, whether court shall have 
adjourned or not, Â§ 50-6-230 to the contrary notwithstanding.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 36; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a186; Code 1932, Â§ 6890; 
Acts 1947, ch. 139, Â§ 12; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6890; Acts 1971, ch. 300, Â§ 
2; 1979, ch. 295, Â§ 1; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. 
ed.), Â§ 50-1023; Acts 1983, ch. 217, Â§ 5; 1985, ch. 393, Â§ 16; 1990, ch.
 843, Â§ 1; 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 25; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-230.  Awards and agreed settlements -- Finality.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-230. Awards and agreed settlements -- Finality. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] All
 settlements of compensation by agreement of the parties and all awards 
of compensation made by the court, where the amount paid or to be paid 
in settlement or by award does not exceed the compensation for six (6) 
months' disability, shall be final and not subject to readjustment.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 37; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a187; Code 1932, Â§ 6891; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1024.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-231.  Lump sum payments final -- Modification of periodic payments for more than six months.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-231. Lump sum payments 
final -- Modification of periodic payments for more than six months. 
 [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] All
 amounts paid by the employer and received by the employee or the 
employee's dependents, by lump sum payments, shall be final, but the 
amount of any award payable periodically for more than six (6) months 
may be modified as follows: (1) At any time by agreement of the parties and approval by the court; or (2) If
 the parties cannot agree, then at any time after six (6) months from 
the date of the award an application may be made to the courts by either
 party, on the ground of increase or decrease of incapacity due solely 
to the injury. In those cases, the same procedure shall be followed as 
in Â§ 50-6-225 in case of a disputed claim for compensation.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 38; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a188; Code 1932, Â§ 6892; T.C.A. (orig. ed), Â§ 50-1025.   

















===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-232.  Present value of future installments -- Deposit in trust releasing employer -- Trustee to make payments.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-232. Present
 value of future installments -- Deposit in trust releasing employer -- 
Trustee to make payments. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and 
after July 1, 2014.] (a) Any 
time after the amount of any award has been agreed upon by the parties, 
or found and ordered by the court, a sum of all future installments of 
compensation may, where death or the nature of the injury renders the 
amount of future payments certain, by leave of court, be paid by the 
employer to any savings bank or trust company of this state to be 
approved and designated by the court, and the sum, together with all 
interest on the sum, shall be held in trust for the employee or the 
dependents of the employee who shall have no further recourse against 
the employer.(b) The payment of the
 sum by the employer evidenced by the receipts of the trustee, which 
shall be filed with the division, shall constitute satisfaction of the 
award by the employer.(c) Payments 
from the fund shall be made by the trustee in the same amounts and at 
the same time as are required of the employer until the fund interest is
 exhausted.(d) In the appointment 
of the trustee, preference shall be given, in the discretion of the 
court of workers' compensation claims, to the choice of the injured 
employee or the dependent of the deceased employee, as the case may be.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 39; impl. am. Acts 1923, ch. 7, Â§ 55, 56; Shan. 
Supp., Â§ 3608a189; Code 1932, Â§ 6893; Acts 1971, ch. 300, Â§ 3; impl. am.
 Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1026; Acts 1985, ch. 
393, Â§ 21; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 71, 72.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation---> 50-6-232.  Present value of future installments -- Deposit in trust releasing employer -- Trustee to make payments.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-232. Present
 value of future installments -- Deposit in trust releasing employer -- 
Trustee to make payments. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to 
July 1, 2014.] (a) Any time 
after the amount of any award has been agreed upon by the parties, or 
found and ordered by the court, a sum of all future installments of 
compensation may, where death or the nature of the injury renders the 
amount of future payments certain, by leave of court, be paid by the 
employer to any savings bank or trust company of this state to be 
approved and designated by the court, and the sum, together with all 
interest on the sum, shall be held in trust for the employee or the 
dependents of the employee who shall have no further recourse against 
the employer.(b) The payment of the
 sum by the employer evidenced by the receipts in duplicate of the 
trustee, one (1) of which shall be filed with the division of workers' 
compensation, and the other filed with the clerk of the circuit court, 
shall operate as a satisfaction of the award as to the employer.(c) Payments
 from the fund shall be made by the trustee in the same amounts and at 
the same time as are required of the employer until the fund interest is
 exhausted.(d) In the appointment 
of the trustee, preference shall be given, in the discretion of the 
court, to the choice of the injured employee or the dependent of the 
deceased employee, as the case may be.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 39; impl. am. Acts 1923, ch. 7, Â§ 55, 56; Shan. 
Supp., Â§ 3608a189; Code 1932, Â§ 6893; Acts 1971, ch. 300, Â§ 3; impl. am.
 Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1026; Acts 1985, ch. 
393, Â§ 21.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-233.  Enforcement powers of administrator -- Referral of vocational rehabilitation cases -- Promulgation of rules and regulations to implement chapter.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-233. Enforcement
 powers of administrator -- Referral of vocational rehabilitation cases 
-- Promulgation of rules and regulations to implement chapter. 
 [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) There
 is conferred upon the administrator the power to enforce this chapter 
that relate to the assurance of payments of the awards under this 
chapter. (2) In no event shall 
the division of workers' compensation charge a fee or impose a cost for 
any necessary or required forms needed to process a workers' 
compensation claim.(b) The 
administrator shall cause the division of workers' compensation to refer
 all feasible cases for vocational rehabilitation to the department of 
education.(c) In addition to the 
rulemaking authority granted in Â§ 50-6-118, and subsection (a), the 
administrator or the commissioner of commerce and insurance, as 
appropriate, may promulgate rules and regulations implementing this 
chapter. The rules and regulations shall be promulgated pursuant to the 
Uniform Administrative Procedures Act, compiled in title 4, chapter 5.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 46; impl. am. Acts 1923, ch. 7, Â§ 2, 50; Shan. 
Supp., Â§ 3608a196; Code 1932, Â§ 6900; Acts 1941, ch. 90, Â§ 12; C. Supp. 
1950, Â§ 6900; Acts 1972, ch. 699, Â§ 5; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 
1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1028; Acts 1983, ch. 215, Â§ 3; 1992, ch. 
900, Â§ 3; 1999, ch. 242, Â§ 2; 1999, ch. 265, Â§ 3; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41, 
2006, ch. 687, Â§ 1; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 73.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-233.  Enforcement power of commissioner -- Referral of vocational rehabilitation cases -- Promulgation of rules and regulations to implement chapter.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-233. Enforcement
 power of commissioner -- Referral of vocational rehabilitation cases --
 Promulgation of rules and regulations to implement chapter. 
 [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) There
 is conferred upon the commissioner the power to enforce this chapter 
that relate to the assurance of payments of the awards under this 
chapter. (2) The commissioner has
 the power, subject to the approval of the governor, to employ clerical 
assistance the commissioner deems necessary and fix the compensation of 
the person or persons so employed. (3) The
 commissioner may make rules and regulations not inconsistent with this 
law for the purpose of discharging the commissioner's duties under this 
chapter. (4) The commissioner may
 provide forms for the use of employers and other literature that may be
 necessary and shall furnish to any employee or employer literature and 
blank forms that the commissioner deems requisite to facilitate or 
promote the efficient administration of this chapter. (5) In
 no event shall the division of workers' compensation charge a fee or 
impose a cost for any necessary or required forms needed to process a 
workers' compensation claim. (6) The
 commissioner shall modify Form # C32 to include a location for a health
 care provider to indicate temporary total disability and the point at 
which the employee reached maximum medical improvement.(b) The
 commissioner shall cause the division of workers' compensation to refer
 all feasible cases for vocational rehabilitation to the department of 
education.(c) In addition to the 
rulemaking authority granted in Â§ 50-6-118, and subsection (a), the 
commissioner or the commissioner of commerce and insurance, as 
appropriate, may promulgate rules and regulations implementing this 
chapter. The rules and regulations shall be promulgated pursuant to the 
Uniform Administrative Procedures Act, compiled in title 4, chapter 5. 
The commissioner's rules and regulations shall include, but not be 
limited to, the rules and regulations: (1) Establishing minimum qualifications and training for workers' compensation specialists; (2) Establishing
 procedures for benefit review conferences including the time within 
which all conferences must be held and the times within which copies of 
reports and agreements must be filed with the commissioner. The rules 
shall prescribe a mechanism by which written notice of all conferences, 
copies of agreements, and copies of reports shall be provided to the 
insurer, the employee, the employer, and any party to a claim. The rules
 shall provide guidelines relating to claims that do not require a 
benefit review conference; (3) To provide a civil penalty for parties to a claim who fail to attend a properly scheduled and noticed conference; (4) To
 provide a procedure to withhold payment from a health care provider for
 over-utilization of medical care or services or for ordering 
inappropriate medical care or services; (5) To
 provide an appeal procedure for a health care provider who has had 
payment withheld for over-utilization of medical care or services; (6) To
 provide a system of case management to coordinate the medical care 
services provided to employees claiming benefits under this chapter. The
 rules and regulations shall establish a threshold of medical expenses 
and services or other appropriate point over which all cases will be 
subject to case management; (7) To
 ensure health care providers' compliance with Â§ 50-6-204(a)(4), and 
rules and regulations to provide an appeal procedure for a health care 
provider who has had payment withheld for charging amounts found to be 
excessive; provided, that no rule promulgated pursuant to this 
subdivision (c)(7) shall be filed with the secretary of state after 
approval by the attorney general and reporter, pursuant to Â§ 4-5-207 
and 4-5-211, unless also approved by the medical care and cost 
containment committee established by Â§ 50-6-125; and (8) To
 establish a civil penalty, to be assessed at the discretion of the 
commissioner, against a provider who has, after proper notification and 
appropriate time to respond, refused to make repayment to a payor for a 
payment that exceeds the medical fee schedule after exhausting all 
appeals. Under no circumstances shall a provider be assessed a civil 
penalty solely for receiving payment from a payor that exceeds the 
medical fee schedule.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 46; impl. am. Acts 1923, ch. 7, Â§ 2, 50; Shan. 
Supp., Â§ 3608a196; Code 1932, Â§ 6900; Acts 1941, ch. 90, Â§ 12; C. Supp. 
1950, Â§ 6900; Acts 1972, ch. 699, Â§ 5; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 
1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1028; Acts 1983, ch. 215, Â§ 3; 1992, ch. 
900, Â§ 3; 1999, ch. 242, Â§ 2; 1999, ch. 265, Â§ 3; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41, 
2006, ch. 687, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-234.  Discontinuance or change in temporary disability benefits by employer -- Resumption or increase of benefits.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-234. Discontinuance
 or change in temporary disability benefits by employer -- Resumption or
 increase of benefits. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after 
July 1, 2014.] (a) In any case
 when the employer has commenced paying temporary disability benefits to
 the employee and has then stopped or changed the benefits for any cause
 other than failure of an employee to submit to employer requests for 
reasonable medical examinations by the treating physician or final 
settlement, the employee may request the assistance of a workers' 
compensation mediator who shall mediate the dispute, in accordance with Â§
 50-6-236. If the dispute is not resolved by agreement, the parties may 
submit the dispute to a workers' compensation judge for resolution after
 the workers' compensation mediator has issued a dispute certification 
notice in accordance with Â§ 50-6-236.(b) After
 temporary disability payments have commenced, when the injured employee
 reaches maximum medical improvement and the compensability of the 
injury has not been contested by the employer, then payments shall 
continue until the injured employee accepts or rejects a job offered by 
any employer at a wage equal to or greater than the employee's 
pre-injury wage, if the employee is able to perform the duties of the 
position within any restrictions placed on the employee by the physician
 selected pursuant to Â§ 50-6-204. In no case may temporary payments 
pursuant to this subsection (b) exceed the lesser of sixty (60) days or 
the value of the employee's permanent partial disability award 
calculated solely upon the medical impairment; provided, that these 
limits may be exceeded if agreed to by all parties. The amount of the 
payment shall be credited against any permanent award. For purposes of 
this subsection (b), the determination of attainment of maximum medical 
improvement and the employee's medical impairment shall be made by the 
physician selected in accordance with Â§ 50-6-204. Nothing in this 
subsection (b) shall require an employer to return any employee to work.HISTORY: Acts 1990, ch. 656, Â§ 1; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 21; 2006, ch. 1014, Â§ 4; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 74.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-234.  Discontinuance or change in temporary disability benefits by employer -- Resumption or increase of benefits.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-234. Discontinuance
 or change in temporary disability benefits by employer -- Resumption or
 increase of benefits. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 
1, 2014.] (a) In any case 
where the employer has commenced paying temporary disability benefits to
 the employee and has then stopped or changed the benefits for any cause
 other than failure of an employee to submit to employer requests for 
reasonable medical examinations by the treating physician or final 
settlement, the employee may petition a court of proper jurisdiction to 
order that the employer show good cause why the temporary benefits 
should not be resumed or increased.(b) Upon a hearing, the court is authorized to award the resumption or increase of the benefits to the employee from the employer.(c) The hearing shall be held within twenty (20) days after the petition is filed.(d) After
 temporary disability payments have commenced, when the injured employee
 reaches maximum medical improvement, a permanent impairment rating is 
given and the compensability of the injury has not been contested by the
 employer, then payments shall continue until the earlier of the 
following events: the injured employee accepts or rejects a job offered 
by the employer at a wage equal to or greater than the employee's 
pre-injury wage, if the employee is able to perform the duties of the 
position within any restrictions placed on the employee by the physician
 selected pursuant to Â§ 50-6-204; or a benefit review conference is held
 and the report is filed pursuant to Â§ 50-6-240. In no case may 
temporary payments pursuant to this subsection (d) exceed the lesser of 
sixty (60) days or the value of the employee's permanent partial 
disability award calculated solely upon the medical impairment; 
provided, that these limits may be exceeded if agreed to by all parties.
 The amount of the payment shall be credited against any permanent 
award. For purposes of this subsection (d), the determination of 
attainment of maximum medical improvement and the employee's medical 
impairment shall be made by the physician selected in accordance with Â§ 
50-6-204. Nothing in this subsection (d) shall require an employer to 
return any employee to work.HISTORY: Acts 1990, ch. 656, Â§ 1; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 21; 2006, ch. 1014, Â§ 4.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-235.  Depositions by physicians -- Written medical report -- Admissibility -- Schedule for charges.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-235. Depositions
 by physicians -- Written medical report -- Admissibility -- Schedule 
for charges. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 
2014.] (a) (1) If a 
physician refuses to make a reasonable effort to give a deposition in a 
workers' compensation case within ninety (90) days of receipt of notice,
 the employee may petition the court for an order requiring the 
physician to give the deposition. (2) If
 the physician does not respond to the petition in a timely fashion, the
 physician may lose the exemption from subpoena to trial established by Â§
 24-9-101.(b) For the purpose of 
subsection (a), the requirement that the physician make a reasonable 
effort to give a deposition may be presumed to be satisfied if the 
physician offers to be available to give the physician's deposition 
within ninety (90) days' of notice at two (2) or more reasonable places 
and at times within normal business hours, but because of scheduling 
difficulties on the part of any of the other persons who wish to be 
present at the deposition, the deposition cannot take place at either of
 the times and places offered by the physician.(c) (1) Any
 party may introduce direct testimony from a physician through a written
 medical report on a form established by the administrator. The 
administrator shall establish by rule the form for the report. All 
parties shall have the right to take the physician's deposition on cross
 examination concerning its contents. Any written medical report sought 
to be introduced as evidence shall be signed by the physician making the
 report bearing an original signature. A reproduced medical report that 
is not originally signed is not admissible as evidence unless 
accompanied by an originally signed affidavit from the physician or the 
submitting attorney verifying the contents of the report. Any written 
medical report sought to be introduced into evidence shall include 
within the body of the report or as an attachment a statement of 
qualifications of the person making the report. The administrator shall,
 by regulation, fix the fee to be charged by the physician for the 
preparation and filing of the report and fix penalties for a failure to 
file the report after a timely request for it by any interested party. (2) The
 written medical report of a treating or examining physician shall be 
admissible at any stage of a workers' compensation claim in lieu of a 
deposition upon oral examination, if notice of intent to use the sworn 
statement is provided to the opposing party or counsel not less than 
twenty (20) days before the date of intended use. If no objection is 
filed within ten (10) days of the receipt of the notice, the sworn 
statement shall be admissible as described in this subsection (c). In 
the event that a party does object, then the objecting party shall 
depose the physician within a reasonable period of time or the objection
 shall be deemed to be waived.(d) The
 medical payment committee established in Â§ 50-6-125 shall establish a 
schedule by rule for reasonable charges by physicians for preparing and 
giving depositions in workers' compensation cases. The schedule may be 
subject to annual revision. Physicians shall not be permitted to charge 
more than the amount permitted under the schedule. The rule shall be 
subject to the approval of the administrator, including annual 
revisions.HISTORY: Acts 1990, ch. 656, Â§ 2; 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 22; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 18; 
1997, ch. 533, Â§ 5; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 75.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-235.  Depositions by physicians -- Written medical report -- Admissibility -- Schedule for charges.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-235. Depositions
 by physicians -- Written medical report -- Admissibility -- Schedule 
for charges. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) If
 a physician refuses to make a reasonable effort to give a deposition in
 a workers' compensation case within ninety (90) days of receipt of 
notice, the employee may petition the court for an order requiring the 
physician to give the deposition. (2) If
 the physician does not respond to the petition in a timely fashion, the
 physician may lose the exemption from subpoena to trial established by Â§
 24-9-101.(b) For the purpose of 
subsection (a), the requirement that the physician make a reasonable 
effort to give a deposition may be presumed to be satisfied if the 
physician offers to be available to give the physician's deposition 
within ninety (90) days' of notice at two (2) or more reasonable places 
and at times within normal business hours, but because of scheduling 
difficulties on the part of any of the other persons who wish to be 
present at the deposition, the deposition cannot take place at either of
 the times and places offered by the physician.(c) (1) Any
 party may introduce direct testimony from a physician through a written
 medical report on a form established by the commissioner. The 
commissioner shall establish by rule the form for the report. All 
parties shall have the right to take the physician's deposition on cross
 examination concerning its contents. Any written medical report sought 
to be introduced as evidence shall be signed by the physician making the
 report bearing an original signature. A reproduced medical report that 
is not originally signed is not admissible as evidence unless 
accompanied by an originally signed affidavit from the physician or the 
submitting attorney verifying the contents of the report. Any written 
medical report sought to be introduced into evidence shall include 
within the body of the report or as an attachment a statement of 
qualifications of the person making the report. The commissioner shall, 
by regulation, fix the fee to be charged by the physician for the 
preparation and filing of the report and fix penalties for a failure to 
file the report after a timely request for it by any interested party. (2) The
 written medical report of a treating or examining physician shall be 
admissible at any stage of a workers' compensation claim in lieu of a 
deposition upon oral examination, if notice of intent to use the sworn 
statement is provided to the opposing party or counsel not less than 
twenty (20) days before the date of intended use. If no objection is 
filed within ten (10) days of the receipt of the notice, the sworn 
statement shall be admissible as described in this subsection (c). In 
the event that a party does object, then the objecting party shall 
depose the physician within a reasonable period of time or the objection
 shall be deemed to be waived.(d) The
 medical care and cost containment committee established in Â§ 50-6-125 
shall establish a schedule by rule for reasonable charges by physicians 
for preparing and giving depositions in workers' compensation cases. The
 schedule may be subject to annual revision. Physicians shall not be 
permitted to charge more than the amount permitted under the schedule. 
The rule shall be subject to the approval of the commissioner, including
 annual revisions.HISTORY: Acts 1990, ch. 656, Â§ 2; 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 22; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 18; 1997, ch. 533, Â§ 5; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-236.  Workers' compensation mediators program. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-236. Workers' compensation mediators program. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) The
 administrator shall establish a workers' compensation mediators program
 to assist injured or disabled employees, persons claiming death 
benefits, employers and other persons in protecting their rights, 
resolving disputes, and obtaining information pertinent to workers' 
compensation laws and practices.(b) In
 accordance with rules adopted by the administrator, the mediator shall 
conduct alternative dispute resolution and the mediator shall: (1) Mediate
 all disputes between the parties related to the resolution of a claim 
for workers' compensation benefits and assist in the adjustment of 
claims consistent with this chapter and the policies of the 
administrator; (2) Thoroughly 
inform all parties of their rights and responsibilities under this 
chapter, including the right of any party to be represented by an 
attorney of the party's choice; (3) Accept
 all documents and information presented to the division relating to the
 employee's wages, medical condition, and any other information 
pertinent to the resolution of disputed issues and include them in the 
claim file; and (4) If the 
parties reach a full and final settlement, the mediator shall reduce the
 settlement to writing and each party, or their representative, shall 
sign. Any settlement reached during alternative dispute resolution 
proceedings shall not become effective, until it has been approved by a 
workers' compensation judge in accordance with the procedure provided in
 this chapter.(c) (1) When 
mediation is held, a person representing the employee and the employer, 
or the employer's insurer, with the authority to settle, shall attend. 
It shall not be required that the state or its representative who 
attends mediation have final settlement authority. Parties entering into
 mediation shall be prepared to mediate all disputed issues at the 
beginning of mediation and shall mediate all issues in good faith. (2) When
 a mediator determines that a party is not prepared to mediate as 
required or believes a party is not mediating in good faith, the 
mediator shall include comments to that effect in the dispute 
certification notice. (3) The 
administrator is authorized to promulgate rules to effectuate the 
purposes of this subsection (c) in accordance with the Uniform 
Administrative Procedures Act, compiled in title 4, chapter 5. The 
violation of those rules or this subsection (c) may subject the party or
 their representative to a civil penalty of not less than fifty dollars 
($50.00) or more than five thousand dollars ($5,000).(d) (1) If
 the parties are unable to reach settlement of any disputed issues, the 
mediator shall issue a written dispute certification notice setting 
forth all unresolved issues for hearing before a workers' compensation 
judge. (2) The dispute 
certification shall be issued on a form prescribed by the administrator 
and signed by the assigned workers' compensation mediator who shall 
distribute a copy of the signed dispute certification notice to all 
parties in accordance with rules adopted by the administrator. (3) (A) No
 party is entitled to a hearing before a workers' compensation judge to 
determine temporary or permanent benefits or to resolve a dispute over 
the terms of an agreed settlement of a workers' compensation claim, 
unless a workers' compensation mediator has issued a dispute 
certification notice setting forth the issues for adjudication by a 
workers' compensation judge. (B) Within
 five (5) business days after a copy of the dispute certification notice
 signed by the mediator has been distributed to the parties, any party 
may, on no more than one (1) occasion for each notice, present a written
 request that the contents of the dispute certification notice be 
amended to the mediator who presided over the alternative dispute 
resolution proceeding. (C) If a
 written request to amend the dispute certification notice is presented 
to the mediator before the expiration of the five (5) business day 
period provided in subdivision (d)(3)(B), the mediator shall, within 
three (3) business days after the initial five (5) business day period 
ends, issue an amended dispute certification notice. If no amended 
dispute certification notice is signed by the mediator and distributed 
to the parties, the initial dispute certification notice distributed to 
the parties pursuant to subdivision (d)(3) shall remain in effect.(e) A
 workers' compensation mediator shall not be an advocate for either 
party and shall mediate all issues without favor or presumption for or 
against either party. A mediator shall have no authority to order the 
provision of workers' compensation benefits.(f) Any
 person employed as a workers' compensation mediator shall not engage in
 mediation, litigation, or determination of workers' compensation claims
 outside of the workers' compensation mediator's duties as a workers' 
compensation mediator.(g) If, 
following a request by the mediator, a party fails to produce documents,
 to cooperate in scheduling mediation, or to provide a representative 
authorized to settle a matter in attendance at mediation, then the 
mediator may issue a dispute certification notice and include a 
statement detailing the party's failure to cooperate, produce documents 
or to ensure attendance of a representative authorized to settle the 
claim. On the motion of either party or on the workers' compensation 
judge's motion, a workers' compensation judge is authorized, but not 
required, to hold a hearing on the failure to produce documents 
requested by the mediator, to cooperate in scheduling and to provide a 
representative who possessed settlement authority. If the workers' 
compensation judge determines that the failure lacked good cause or 
resulted from bad faith, then the workers' compensation judge may assess
 the offending party who failed to take the requested action with 
attorney's fees and costs related only to the mediation and the hearing.
 The administrator is authorized to promulgate rules to effectuate the 
purposes of this subsection (g) in accordance with the Uniform 
Administrative Procedures Act.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 11; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 19, 20; 1999, ch. 242, Â§ 1;
 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 18, 19; 2005, ch. 390, Â§ 8; 
2013, ch. 289, Â§ 76.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-236.  Workers' compensation specialists.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-236. Workers' compensation specialists. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) The
 commissioner shall establish a workers' compensation specialist program
 to assist injured or disabled employees, persons claiming death 
benefits, employers and other persons in protecting their rights and 
obtaining information available under workers' compensation laws.(b) A
 workers' compensation specialist shall meet with or otherwise provide 
information to or receive information from injured or disabled 
employees, employers, insurance carriers and health care providers on 
behalf of injured or disabled employees. The specialist shall conduct 
informal dispute resolution by holding benefit review conferences 
throughout the state. The conference shall be held in the county where 
the employee lives, unless otherwise agreed to between the parties, or 
otherwise directed by the commissioner.(c) Any
 person employed as a specialist by the commissioner is ineligible to 
further handle cases that require the person's involvement during this 
employment as a specialist.(d) A 
workers' compensation specialist shall examine any proposed settlement 
reached during the benefit review conference to determine whether the 
employee is receiving, substantially, the benefits provided by this 
chapter.(e) Each employer shall 
notify the employer's employees of the workers' compensation specialist 
service in a manner prescribed by the commissioner. At a minimum, the 
notice shall include the posting of a notice in one (1) or more 
conspicuous places. The notice shall include a toll-free number for 
employees to reach a workers' compensation specialist. The commissioner 
shall also describe clearly the availability of the workers' 
compensation specialist on the first report of accident form required by
 this chapter.(f) Workers' 
compensation specialists shall conduct benefit review conferences. The 
commissioner shall institute and maintain an education and training 
program for workers' compensation specialists, who must be employees of 
the division. The specialists shall be trained in the principles and 
procedures of dispute mediation. The commissioner is authorized to 
consult or enter into contracts with the federal mediation and 
conciliation service or other appropriate organizations to accomplish 
this purpose.(g) In conducting benefit review conferences, the workers' compensation specialist shall: (1) Mediate
 disputes between the parties and assist in the adjustment of claims 
consistent with this chapter and the policies of the commissioner, 
before and after the benefit review conference; (2) Thoroughly
 inform all parties of their rights and responsibilities under this 
chapter, including the right of any party to be represented by an 
attorney of the party's choice; (3) Ensure
 that all documents and information relating to the employees' wages, 
medical condition, and any other information pertinent to the resolution
 of disputed issues are contained in the claim file at the conference, 
especially in cases in which the employee is not represented by an 
attorney; and (4) Determine 
whether, under any proposed settlement, the employee is receiving, 
substantially, the benefits provided by this chapter.(h) A
 benefit review conference shall be requested at any time within the 
limitation period or periods provided in Â§ 50-6-203 or 50-6-306. A 
workers' compensation specialist shall have the authority to continue or
 reschedule a benefit review conference. A workers' compensation 
specialist shall also have the authority to cancel or waive a benefit 
review conference, solely within the discretion of that workers' 
compensation specialist.(i) For the
 purpose of conducting discovery, workers' compensation specialists 
shall have the authority, either on their own or at the request of 
either party, to refer matters to a specially designated attorney within
 the department who may issue subpoenas, effect discovery, and issue 
protective orders in the same manner as an administrative judge or 
hearing officer pursuant to Â§ 4-5-311.(j) The
 workers' compensation specialist may not take testimony but may direct 
questions to an employee, an employer, or a representative of an 
insurance carrier to supplement or clarify information in a claim file.(k) The workers' compensation specialist shall maintain a file concerning these proceedings.(l) The
 workers' compensation specialist shall not engage in litigation or 
determination of workers' compensation claims outside of the workers' 
compensation specialist's duties as a workers' compensation specialist.(m) The
 commissioner shall establish a program of continuing education and 
training for workers' compensation specialists in order to assure that 
specialists maintain current and appropriate skills and knowledge in 
performing their duties. The program of continuing education shall 
include, at a minimum, seven (7) hours of continuing education each 
fiscal year. The minimum seven (7) hours of education shall be 
specifically in the area of Workers' Compensation Law, compiled in this 
chapter, and shall be in addition to any mediation training provided to 
the specialists. Three (3) of the seven (7) hours of education shall be 
approved by the Tennessee commission on continuing legal education and 
specialization. In addition to the annual seven-hour continuing 
education requirement, each specialist hired by the department shall be 
provided, within one (1) month of the date of hire, formal training and 
education, which shall include training on the department's workers' 
compensation system, the Tennessee workers' compensation statutes and 
caselaw, and the rules and regulations of the division of workers' 
compensation. Documentation reflecting the type of education and 
training provided pursuant to this subsection (m) shall be maintained by
 the administrator of the division of workers' compensation. 
Documentation of each educational program shall include the date of the 
program, the name of each specialist attending, a description of the 
educational program including topics covered, the name of the sponsor or
 provider of the educational program and the number of hours for each 
educational program.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 11; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 19, 20; 1999, ch. 242, Â§ 1;
 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 18, 19; 2005, ch. 390, Â§ 8.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation---> 50-6-237.  Court of workers' compensation claims. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-237. Court of workers' compensation claims. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] There
 is created the court of workers' compensation claims in the division of
 workers' compensation, which shall have original and exclusive 
jurisdiction over all contested claims for workers' compensation 
benefits when the date of the alleged injury is on or after July 1, 
2014. The administrator shall have sole administrative authority over 
the court including authority to appoint, and to remove, workers' 
compensation judges. The administrator shall promulgate rules and 
regulations consistent with this chapter in order to fulfill the 
purposes of this chapter in an orderly and efficient manner.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 12; 2001, ch. 244, Â§ 1; 2007, ch. 513, Â§ 2; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 78.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-237.  Purpose of benefit review conference -- Paid representation required to be by licensed attorney.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 




Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-237. Purpose
 of benefit review conference -- Paid representation required to be by 
licensed attorney. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 
2014.] (a) A benefit review conference is a nonadversarial, informal dispute resolution proceeding designed to: (1) Explain,
 orally and in writing, the rights of the respective parties to a 
workers' compensation claim and the procedures necessary to protect 
those rights; (2) Discuss the facts of the claim, review available information in order to evaluate the claim, and delineate the disputed issues; (3) Mediate
 and resolve disputed issues by mutual agreement of the parties in 
accordance with this chapter and the policies of the commissioner; (4) Provide an opportunity for, but not to compel, a binding settlement of some or all of the issues present at the time; (5) Facilitate the resolution of issues without the expense of litigation or attorneys' fees for either party; and (6) Determine,
 under any proposed settlement, whether any employee is receiving, 
substantially, the benefits provided by this chapter.(b) Any
 person charging a fee specifically for the representation of an 
employee in any early dispute resolution proceeding or benefit review 
conference under this chapter shall be an attorney licensed to practice 
law in the state.(c) When a benefit
 review conference is held, both the employee and the employer, or the 
employer's insurer, shall provide that a person with the authority to 
settle the dispute attends the conference. Parties entering into the 
benefit review conference process are required to mediate in good faith.
 Each party must be prepared to consider offers made by the other party.
 When a specialist determines that a party is not prepared to mediate as
 required or believes a party is not mediating in good faith, the 
specialist shall include comments to that effect in the report of the 
proceeding. Failure to comply with this section may subject the party or
 their representative to a civil penalty of not less than fifty dollars 
($50.00) nor more than five thousand dollars ($5000).HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 12; 2001, ch. 244, Â§ 1; 2007, ch. 513, Â§ 2.







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-238.  Appointment of workers' compensation judges -- Duties of judges -- Appointment of chief judge of the court of workers' compensation claims -- Duties of chief judge -- Appointment of clerk of the court of workers' compensation claims -- Duties of clerk. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-238. Appointment
 of workers' compensation judges -- Duties of judges -- Appointment of 
chief judge of the court of workers' compensation claims -- Duties of 
chief judge -- Appointment of clerk of the court of workers' 
compensation claims -- Duties of clerk. [Applicable to injuries 
occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) On
 or after July 1, 2013, the administrator shall appoint qualified 
individuals to serve as workers' compensation judges. Workers' 
compensation judges shall be Tennessee licensed attorneys in good 
standing with at least five (5) years experience in workers' 
compensation matters and shall be at least thirty (30) years of age. 
Workers' compensation judges shall be executive service employees of the
 state as defined in Â§ 8-30-103. (2) (A) In
 making the initial appointments, the administrator shall have authority
 to shorten and stagger the terms of workers' compensation judges to 
ensure that the terms of no more than seven (7) workers' compensation 
judges shall terminate at the same time. (B) Except
 for the initial appointment of candidates to fill the position of 
workers' compensation judge, upon appointment, each workers' 
compensation judge shall serve a term of six (6) years. Terms shall 
begin on July 1 and expire six (6) years later, on June 30. No workers' 
compensation judge shall serve more than three (3) full terms, and 
service of more than half of a six (6) year term shall constitute 
service of one (1) full term. If a sitting workers' compensation judge 
is removed or resigns, a vacancy shall exist in the office, which shall 
be filled for the unexpired term by a person meeting the requirements of
 subdivision (a)(1). (C) Any workers' compensation judge may be reappointed by the administrator upon expiration of the term. (D) If
 a workers' compensation judge leaves the position prior to the 
expiration of the term, the administrator shall appoint an individual 
meeting the qualifications of this section to serve the unexpired 
portion of the term. The individual may be reappointed by the 
administrator upon expiration of the term. Any workers' compensation 
judge appointed to serve less than a full term to fill a vacancy created
 by the removal or resignation of a sitting workers' compensation judge 
shall be eligible to serve an additional three (3) full terms. (3) It
 shall be the duty of a workers' compensation judge to hear and 
determine claims for compensation, to approve settlements of claims for 
compensation, to conduct hearings, and to make orders, decisions, and 
determinations. Workers' compensation judges shall conduct hearings in 
accordance with the Tennessee Rules of Civil Procedure, the Tennessee 
Rules of Evidence and the rules adopted by the division and shall have 
authority to issue subpoenas and to compel obedience to their judgments,
 orders, and process through the assessment of a penalty as provided in Â§
 50-6-118.(b) (1) On or 
after July 1, 2013, the administrator shall appoint a qualified 
individual to serve as chief judge of the court of workers' compensation
 claims. The individual shall be a Tennessee licensed attorney in good 
standing with at least seven (7) years experience in workers' 
compensation matters. The chief judge shall be an executive service 
employee of the state as defined in Â§ 8-30-103. (2) In
 addition to performing the duties required of a workers' compensation 
judge by subdivision (a)(3), it shall be the duty of the chief judge, 
under the rules adopted by the division, to administer the day to day 
operations of the court of workers' compensation claims and supervise 
the activities of workers' compensation judges. (3) Upon
 appointment, the chief judge shall serve a term of six (6) years and 
may be reappointed by the administrator upon expiration of the term. No 
chief judge of the court of workers' compensation claims shall serve 
more than two (2) full terms, and service of more than half of a six (6)
 year term shall constitute service of one (1) full term. Any chief 
judge of the court of workers' compensation claims appointed to serve 
less than a full term to fill a vacancy created by the removal or 
resignation of the previous chief judge shall be eligible to serve an 
additional two (2) full terms.(c) Unless
 otherwise provided by law or clearly inapplicable in context, the 
Tennessee Code of Judicial Conduct, Rule 10, Canons 1-4, of the Rules of
 the Tennessee Supreme Court, and any subsequent amendments thereto, 
shall apply to all workers' compensation judges. However, any complaints
 regarding the conduct of a workers' compensation judge under the code 
shall be made to the chief workers' compensation judge. Any complaints 
about the chief judge shall be made to the administrator.(d) The
 administrator shall have authority to remove a workers' compensation 
judge or the chief judge during an unexpired term for the commission of 
any of the judicial offenses provided in Â§ 17-5-302.(e) Any
 person appointed to serve as a workers' compensation judge or as the 
chief judge shall be required to take an oath or affirmation to support 
the constitutions of the United States and of this state, and to 
administer justice without respect of persons, and impartially to 
discharge all the duties incumbent upon a judge to the best of the 
judge's skill and ability. The oath may be taken before another workers'
 compensation judge, any inferior court judge, a retired judge, a 
retired chancellor or an active or retired judge of the court of general
 sessions.(f) No workers' 
compensation judge or chief judge shall practice law, or perform any of 
the functions of attorney or counsel, in any of the courts of this 
state, except in cases in which the judge may have been employed as 
counsel previous to the appointment as a workers' compensation judge or 
chief judge. A newly appointed workers' compensation judge or chief 
judge can practice law only in an effort to wind up the judge's practice
 and must end the practice of law as soon as reasonably possible and in 
no event longer than one hundred eighty (180) days after assuming the 
position of workers' compensation judge or chief judge.(g) When
 considering the appointment of an individual to serve as a workers' 
compensation judge or as the chief judge, the administrator shall 
consider comment from the members of the business, labor and legal 
communities concerning the suitability of the individual for appointment
 as a workers' compensation judge or the chief judge.(h) On
 or after July 1, 2013, the administrator shall appoint a qualified 
individual to serve as the clerk of the court of workers' compensation 
claims whose duty it shall be to perform all the clerical functions of 
the court. The clerk of the court of workers' compensation claims shall 
be an executive service employee of the state as defined in Â§ 8-30-103.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 13; 1998, ch. 1024, Â§ 24, 25; 1999, ch. 265, Â§ 
1, 2; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2000, ch. 852, Â§ 17-19; 2001, ch. 192, Â§ 16;
 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 7; 2006, ch. 772, Â§ 1; 2006, ch. 778, Â§ 1; 2006, ch. 
1014, Â§ 2; 2007, ch. 403, Â§ 2; 2008, ch. 1183, Â§ 1-3; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 
79.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-238.  Assistance of workers' compensation specialist in determining award of benefits -- Authority of specialist -- Refunds -- Specialist's determination as evidence -- Penalty for noncompliance with specialist's order.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-238. Assistance
 of workers' compensation specialist in determining award of benefits --
 Authority of specialist -- Refunds -- Specialist's determination as 
evidence -- Penalty for noncompliance with specialist's order. 
 [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) (A) Any
 party or their attorney may request the assistance of a workers' 
compensation specialist in the determination of whether temporary 
disability or medical benefits are appropriate by filing with the 
division a form prescribed for that purpose by the commissioner. (B) (i) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 2008, if the request for the 
assistance of a workers' compensation specialist is filed pursuant to 
(a)(1)(A) within the time prescribed by Â§ 50-6-203 or Â§ 50-6-306, the 
time within which to file a request for a benefit review conference 
shall not expire before sixty (60) days after the issuance of a benefit 
review report by the workers' compensation specialist making the 
determination on the request for assistance. (ii) Nothwithstanding
 subdivision (a)(1)(B)(i), in no event shall the parties have less time 
to file a request for a benefit review conference than is prescribed by Â§
 50-6-203 or Â§ 50-6-306. (C) With
 respect to the determination of whether to order the payment of 
temporary disability or medical benefits, a workers' compensation 
specialist shall not be an advocate for either party, but shall decide 
the issues solely on the basis of the information available to the 
specialist without favor or presumption for or against either party. (2) If,
 in light of available information, a workers' compensation specialist 
determines that it is appropriate to order the payment of temporary 
disability benefits to an employee, then a workers' compensation 
specialist may order the initiation, continuation or reinstitution of 
the benefits by an employer or the employers' workers' compensation 
insurer. (3) If, in light of 
available information, a workers' compensation specialist determines 
that it is appropriate to order the employer or insurer to provide 
medical benefits, the specialist's authority shall include, but not be 
limited to, the authority to order specific medical treatment 
recommended by the treating physician, and the authority to require the 
employer to provide the appropriate panel of physicians to the employee,
 including a panel of appropriate specialists. The workers' compensation
 specialist shall also have the authority to enforce the provision of 
the panel of physicians as required under Â§ 50-6-204(a)(4). (4) Any
 benefits ordered by a workers' compensation specialist as provided in 
this subsection (a) shall be ordered on a form prescribed by the 
commissioner. (5) If, under all 
of the relevant circumstances, the specialist deems it to be 
appropriate, the specialist shall order the retroactive payment of 
benefits. (6) (A) If a 
party submits information, including, but not limited to, written or 
electronic documents, medical records, video or audio tapes or X-rays, 
to a workers' compensation specialist who is considering whether to 
order temporary disability or medical benefits, or both, the party shall
 also provide a copy of the information submitted to the opposing party,
 or the opposing party's attorney, at the time the information is 
provided to the specialist or upon request by the opposing party or 
attorney, or both. (B) Upon 
request, a workers' compensation specialist shall provide either the 
employee, the employer, the employer's insurer or attorneys representing
 any party, or all of these parties, an opportunity to review the 
information the specialist has in the department's file upon which the 
specialist may base a decision as to whether to order temporary 
disability or medical benefits, or both. The reviewing party shall have 
the right to request a copy of any document or record contained in the 
department's file. (C) The 
department shall be entitled to charge a fee for copying and mailing the
 documents requested. The fee shall not exceed ten dollars ($10.00) for 
the first twenty-five (25) pages and a charge of twenty-five cents 
(25cent(s)) for each page after twenty-five (25) pages. No additional 
fee shall be charged for postage. If the documents requested include 
videotapes, audiotapes or X-rays, the party who provided the video or 
audio tapes or X-rays to the specialist shall be required to provide a 
copy to the requesting party and the specialist shall have the authority
 to order the party to provide the tape or X-ray to the requesting 
party.(b) If a specialist has 
ordered the payment of benefits pursuant to this section and a court 
subsequently finds that the employee was not entitled to the ordered 
benefits, then the entity or person who paid the benefits shall be 
entitled to a refund of all amounts paid pursuant to a specialist's 
order or orders. The refund shall be paid from the second injury fund 
established by Â§ 50-6-208. The entity or person who paid the benefits 
pursuant to a specialist's order or orders is not entitled to receive 
the refund until the claim has been fully concluded by trial court or, 
if appealed, by the Tennessee supreme court. To receive the refund, the 
employer or employer's insurer shall send a certified copy of the final 
order of the trial or appellate court to the division of workers' 
compensation, by certified mail, return receipt requested. If the refund
 is not made within thirty (30) days of the date the certified mail was 
accepted by the division, then the employer or employer's insurer shall 
be entitled to interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum from 
the date the refund became overdue.(c) Evidence
 of the denial of initiation, continuation or reinstitution of 
compensation ordered pursuant to this section by a workers' compensation
 specialist is inadmissible in a subsequent proceeding. In a case where 
an employer or insurer has paid benefits pursuant to an order of a 
workers' compensation specialist, and the employer or insurer wishes to 
contest the compensability of the injury, then the court shall hear the 
issue de novo, and no presumption of correctness is given to any prior 
determination.(d) (1) (A) If
 a specialist issues an order that denies the compensability of the 
employee's claim or denies workers' compensation benefits to the 
employee, the employee may request the administrator of the division of 
workers' compensation to administratively review the specialist's order 
by submitting a written request to the administrator in a format 
specified by the administrator. The written request shall be submitted 
to the administrator no later than seven (7) calendar days from the date
 on which the employee received the specialist's order denying 
compensability or benefits. If no written request to administratively 
review the order of a specialist is submitted to the administrator of 
the division of workers' compensation, the order of the specialist 
becomes final. (B) (i) If
 a specialist issues an order for the payment of workers' compensation 
benefits pursuant to this section, the party against whom the order was 
issued may request the administrator of the division of workers' 
compensation to administratively review the specialist's order by 
submitting a written request to the administrator in a format specified 
by the administrator. The written request shall be submitted to the 
administrator no later than seven (7) calendar days from the date on 
which the party received the specialist's order that is the subject of 
the request. (ii) If no 
written request to administratively review the order of a specialist is 
submitted to the administrator of the division of workers' compensation,
 as provided in this subsection (d), the party against whom a specialist
 has issued an order to provide or pay workers' compensation benefits 
shall comply with the order within fifteen (15) calendar days of the 
receipt of the order. (iii) If
 a written request for administrative review of a specialist's order is 
submitted to the administrator of the division of workers' compensation,
 the party against whom a specialist has issued an order to provide or 
pay workers' compensation benefits is not required to comply with the 
specialist's order as outlined in subdivision (d)(1)(B)(ii). (2) (A) After
 receipt of a written request for administrative review of a 
specialist's order, an informal conference with the affected parties 
shall be conducted by the administrator or the administrator's designee.
 The informal conference with the administrator or the administrator's 
designee shall occur within ten (10) calendar days of the date the 
administrator received the written request for administrative review. 
The administrator's designee shall be a Tennessee licensed attorney, 
shall have a minimum of five (5) years of experience with the Workers' 
Compensation Law, compiled in this chapter, and shall not be the 
specialist who issued the order that is the subject of administrative 
review. (B) Within seven (7) 
calendar days following the conclusion of the informal conference, a 
written order shall be issued and signed by the administrator or 
administrator's designee. If the order issued and signed by the 
administrator or administrator's designee orders the payment of workers'
 compensation benefits to or on behalf of the employee, the party 
against whom the order is issued shall comply with the order within ten 
(10) calendar days of the receipt of the order of the administrator or 
administrator's designee. [See the Compiler's Notes.] (3) If
 an insurer, self-insured employer or self-insured pool fails to comply 
with an order issued by a specialist within fifteen (15) calendar days 
of receipt of the order, or fails to comply with an order issued by the 
administrator or administrator's designee within ten (10) calendar days 
of the receipt of the order, whichever is applicable, the commissioner 
shall assess a penalty in the amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000). 
Notification of the assessed penalty shall be sent to the insurer, 
self-insured employer or self-insured pool by facsimile, electronic mail
 or certified mail. The insurer, self-insured employer or self-insured 
pool shall have five (5) calendar days from the receipt of the 
notification of penalty to respond and prove that it has complied with 
the specialist's order. If satisfactory proof of compliance is not 
received by the twenty-first calendar day after receipt of the 
notification of penalty, additional penalties in the amount of one 
thousand dollars ($1,000) per day shall begin to accrue on the 
twenty-first day. The insurer, self-insured employer or self-insured 
pool shall have the right to appeal the penalty assessed by the 
commissioner for failure to comply with an order issued by a specialist 
or by the administrator or administrator's designee pursuant to the 
Uniform Administrative Procedures Act, compiled in title 4, chapter 5. (4) In
 addition to any other penalty provided by law, if an insurer, 
self-insured employer or self-insured pool fails to comply with an order
 issued by a specialist or fails to comply with an order issued by the 
administrator or the administrator's designee within thirty (30) days of
 receipt of the order, the commissioner shall notify the commissioner of
 commerce and insurance of the failure to comply. The commissioner of 
commerce and insurance may consider the continued failure to comply with
 the order of the specialist or administrator or the administrator's 
designee as a violation of title 56, chapter 8, which subjects the 
insurer to the penalty provisions of Â§ 56-8-109, and may consider any 
failure by a self-insured employer or self-insured pool to comply with 
the order of the specialist sufficient grounds to revoke the employer's 
status as a self-insured employer or self-insured pool pursuant to Â§ 
50-6-405.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 13; 1998, ch. 1024, Â§ 24, 25; 1999, ch. 265, Â§ 
1, 2; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2000, ch. 852, Â§ 17-19; 2001, ch. 192, Â§ 16;
 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 7; 2006, ch. 772, Â§ 1; 2006, ch. 778, Â§ 1; 2006, ch. 
1014, Â§ 2; 2007, ch. 403, Â§ 2; 2008, ch. 1183, Â§ 1-3.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-239.  Request of hearing after issuance of dispute certification notice -- Issuance of notice -- Permission required to present issues not certified by mediator -- Conduct of hearings -- Hearings of disputes on expedited basis -- Discovery disputes --Penalties for failure to comply with orders -- Filing fees -- Judicial review of orders. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-239. Request
 of hearing after issuance of dispute certification notice -- Issuance 
of notice -- Permission required to present issues not certified by 
mediator -- Conduct of hearings -- Hearings of disputes on expedited 
basis -- Discovery disputes --Penalties for failure to comply with 
orders -- Filing fees -- Judicial review of orders. [Applicable to 
injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) Within
 sixty (60) days after issuance of a dispute certification notice by a 
workers' compensation mediator, a party seeking further resolution of 
disputed issues shall file a request for a hearing with the division, 
and the clerk of the court of workers' compensation claims shall issue 
notice to all parties identifying the judge to whom the claim has been 
assigned and the procedure for scheduling and preparing for a hearing.(b) (1) Unless
 permission has been granted by the assigned workers' compensation 
judge, only issues that have been certified by a workers' compensation 
mediator within a dispute certification notice may be presented to the 
workers' compensation judge for adjudication. (2) Following
 the issuance of a dispute certification notice and assignment of the 
claim to a workers' compensation judge, the workers' compensation judge 
may grant permission for parties to present issues that have not been 
certified by a workers' compensation mediator only upon finding that: (A) The
 parties did not have knowledge of the issue prior to issuance of the 
dispute certification and could not have known of the issue despite 
reasonable investigation; and (B) Prohibiting presentation of the issue would result in substantial injustice to the petitioning party.(c) Hearings of disputes shall be conducted in the following manner: (1) All
 hearings shall be conducted within the timeframes adopted by the 
administrator through the promulgation of rules. The Tennessee Rules of 
Evidence and the Tennessee Rules of Civil Procedure shall govern 
proceedings at all hearings before a workers' compensation judge unless 
an alternate procedural or evidentiary rule has been adopted by the 
administrator. Whenever the administrator has adopted an alternate 
procedural or evidentiary rule that conflicts with the Tennessee Rules 
of Civil Procedure or the Tennessee Rules of Evidence, the rule adopted 
by the administrator shall apply; (2) Following
 the hearing, the workers' compensation judge shall issue a compensation
 order that sets forth findings of fact and conclusions of law, and, if 
appropriate, an order for the payment of benefits under the workers' 
compensation law. The workers' compensation judge shall note the date of
 entry on the order and a copy of the order shall be distributed to the 
parties in accordance with procedures adopted by the administrator; (3) If
 a party who has filed a request for hearing files a notice of nonsuit 
of the action, either party shall have ninety (90) days from the date of
 the order of dismissal to institute an action for recovery of benefits 
under this chapter; (4) All 
hearings before the workers' compensation judge shall be open to the 
public. The parties may provide a court reporter for the preparation of a
 record; (5) The testimony of any
 witness may be taken by deposition according to the Tennessee Rules of 
Civil Procedure or may be taken before the workers' compensation judge. 
No costs shall be charged, taxed or collected by the workers' 
compensation judge for the appearance of witnesses except fees for 
witnesses who testify under subpoena. The witnesses shall be allowed the
 same fee for attendance and mileage as is fixed by law in civil 
actions; (6) Unless the statute 
provides for a different standard of proof, at a hearing the employee 
shall bear the burden of proving each and every element of the claim by a
 preponderance of the evidence; (7) There
 shall be a presumption that the findings and conclusions of the 
workers' compensation judge are correct, unless the preponderance of the
 evidence is otherwise. The decision of the workers' compensation judge 
shall become final thirty (30) days after the workers' compensation 
judge enters a compensation order, unless a party in interest seeks an 
appeal of the decision from the workers' compensation appeals board 
pursuant to this chapter. If a party in interest does not file a timely 
request for appeal to the workers' compensation appeals board, the order
 of the workers' compensation judge shall become final and may be 
appealed to the state supreme court in the manner provided by Â§ 
50-6-225; (8) The workers' 
compensation judge may, in his discretion, assess discretionary costs 
including reasonable fees for depositions of medical experts against the
 employer upon adjudication of the employee's claim as compensable; (9) After
 an order entered by a workers' compensation judge has become final, the
 parties subject to the order shall have five (5) business days after 
all appeals are exhausted to comply with the order or the noncompliant 
parties shall be subject to penalization as provided by Â§ 50-6-118; (10) In
 any claim where the employee has suffered a catastrophic injury, the 
workers' compensation judge assigned to the claim shall have discretion 
to order that the claim be heard on an expedited basis. If the assigned 
workers' compensation judge orders an expedited hearing of the claim, 
the claim shall be given priority over all cases on the workers' 
compensation judge's trial docket with the exception of any other claims
 that the workers' compensation judge has previously ordered to be heard
 on an expedited basis under this subdivision (c)(10).(d) Hearings of disputes on an expedited basis shall be conducted in the following manner: (1) Upon
 motion of either party made at any time after a dispute certification 
notice has been issued by a workers' compensation mediator, a workers' 
compensation judge may, at the judge's discretion, hear disputes over 
issues provided in the dispute certification notice concerning the 
provision of temporary disability or medical benefits on an expedited 
basis and enter an interlocutory order upon determining that the injured
 employee would likely prevail at a hearing on the merits. A copy of the
 motion shall be served by the moving party on all other parties to the 
claim in accordance with procedures adopted by the administrator; (2) A
 workers' compensation judge is not required to hold a full evidentiary 
hearing before issuing an interlocutory order for temporary disability 
or medical benefits; (3) If 
temporary disability or medical benefits are ordered, the employer shall
 have seven (7) business days to comply with the order or to request an 
appeal from the workers' compensation appeals board. Unless modified by 
the workers' compensation appeals board following an appeal or unless a 
subsequent order to modify an interlocutory order for temporary 
disability or medical benefits is issued by the workers' compensation 
judge presiding over the claim, the interlocutory order shall remain in 
effect pending conclusion of the matter by hearing according to the 
procedure provided in subsection (c); (4) If
 a motion for temporary disability or medical benefits is denied on the 
basis that the claim is not compensable, the proceeding shall continue 
according to the procedure provided in subsection (c) unless the 
employee files a request for an appeal to the workers' compensation 
appeals board. At any time after the employee has exhausted the 
procedures for seeking an appeal from the workers' compensation appeals 
board, as provided in this chapter, the workers' compensation judge may 
entertain an appropriate motion from the employer for dismissal of the 
claim.(e) All discovery disputes, 
including motions to compel and for protective order, shall be 
adjudicated upon the review of written motions and affidavits. A 
workers' compensation judge may, in the judge's discretion, convene a 
hearing on a discovery dispute only upon a finding that good cause to 
convene a hearing exists.(f) The 
failure of any party to comply in a timely manner with an interlocutory 
or final order issued by a workers' compensation judge may result in the
 assessment of a penalty as provided in Â§ 50-6-118.(g) The administrator shall have authority to assess a filing fee sufficient to offset the cost of administering this chapter.(h) Except
 as otherwise provided in Â§ 50-6-118, no order issued by a workers' 
compensation judge shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to the 
Uniform Administrative Procedures Act, compiled in title 4, chapter 5.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 14; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 22; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 
2004, ch. 962, Â§ 20; 2008, ch. 1183, Â§ 4, 7; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 82.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-239.  Motion for benefit review conference -- Motion for expedited adjudication -- Specialists.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-239. Motion
 for benefit review conference -- Motion for expedited adjudication -- 
Specialists. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) In
 all cases in which the parties have any issues in dispute, whether the 
issues are related to medical benefits, temporary disability benefits, 
or issues related to the final resolution of a matter, the parties shall
 request the department to hold a benefit review conference.(b) The
 parties to a dispute shall attend and participate in a benefit review 
conference that addresses all issues related to a final resolution of 
the matter as a condition precedent to filing a complaint with a court 
of competent jurisdiction, unless the benefit review conference process 
is otherwise exhausted pursuant to rules promulgated by the 
commissioner.(c) (1) The 
division shall have the authority to schedule a date specific for the 
benefit review conference. The division shall endeavor to work with the 
parties or their representatives to schedule a date convenient to the 
parties, and the parties shall cooperate in scheduling the conference; 
however, in the event the parties cannot agree to a date within 
forty-five (45) days of the date a benefit review conference is 
requested or the date on which the employee reaches maximum medical 
improvement, whichever date is later, the division shall schedule the 
conference on a specific date and give the parties written notice of the
 date and the parties shall attend the benefit review conference on the 
date scheduled by the division. (2) If
 a request for a benefit review conference is on file for a period in 
excess of one (1) year, the division shall have the authority to 
schedule a date specific for the benefit review conference and give the 
parties written notice at their last known address. (3) If
 the division fails to conduct a benefit review conference within sixty 
(60) days of receipt of a request for a benefit review conference or the
 date on which the employee reaches maximum medical improvement, 
whichever date is later, the parties may agree to hire a private Rule 31
 mediator to conduct the mediation. Any agreement reached through 
private Rule 31 mediation must be approved by a court or the department 
in accordance with Â§ 50-6-206.(d) The
 commissioner is authorized to promulgate rules concerning all aspects 
of the administrative process related to benefit review conferences 
pursuant to the Uniform Administrative Procedures Act, compiled in title
 4, chapter 5.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 14; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 22; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 20; 2008, ch. 1183, Â§ 4, 7.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-240.  Approval or rejection of settlement agreements. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-240. Approval or rejection of settlement agreements. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) A workers' compensation judge may approve a proposed settlement among the parties if: (1) The settlement agreement has been signed by the parties; and (2) The
 workers' compensation judge has determined that the employee is 
receiving, substantially, the benefits provided by this chapter, or, in 
cases subject to subsection (d), if the workers' compensation judge has 
determined that the settlement is in the best interest of the employee.(b) A
 workers' compensation judge shall approve or reject settlements 
submitted to the division within three (3) business days after the 
settlement has been received by the division and assigned to a workers' 
compensation judge for consideration.(c) In
 approving settlements, a workers' compensation judge shall consider all
 pertinent factors and if the injured employee is not represented by 
counsel, then the workers' compensation judge shall thoroughly inform 
the employee of the scope of benefits available under this chapter and 
the employee's rights and the procedures necessary to protect those 
rights.(d) Notwithstanding any 
other provision of this chapter, an employee who is determined to be 
permanently and totally disabled shall not be allowed to compromise and 
settle the employee's rights to future medical benefits.(e) Notwithstanding
 any other provision of this section, if there is a dispute between the 
parties as to whether a claim is compensable, or as to the amount of 
compensation due, the parties may settle the matter without regard to 
whether the employee is receiving substantially the benefits provided by
 this chapter; provided, that the settlement is determined by a workers'
 compensation judge to be in the best interest of the employee.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 15; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 23; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 84.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-240.  Settlement agreement at conference -- Written agreement or settlement -- Report on unresolved issues -- Filing.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-240. Settlement
 agreement at conference -- Written agreement or settlement -- Report on
 unresolved issues -- Filing. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior 
to July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) A
 dispute may be resolved either in whole or in part at the benefit 
review conference. If the conference results in the resolution of some 
of the disputed issues by mutual agreement or in a settlement, the 
workers' compensation specialist shall reduce the agreement or the 
settlement to writing. The workers' compensation specialist and each 
party shall sign the agreement or settlement. A settlement is not 
effective unless it is approved in accordance with Â§ 50-6-206, and takes
 effect on the date approved. (2) The
 specialist shall note in a report on unresolved issues required by this
 section the failure of any party to furnish documents to the specialist
 on request by the specialist, to cooperate in scheduling, or to provide
 a representative who possessed settlement authority in attendance at 
the conference.(b) If the dispute 
is not entirely resolved at the benefit review conference, the workers' 
compensation specialist shall prepare a written report that also 
includes: (1) A statement of each agreed upon issue; and (2) A statement of each issue raised but not agreed upon.(c) The
 workers' compensation specialist shall file the signed agreement and 
the report with the commissioner and the court, as appropriate. Any 
party filing an action with a court of competent jurisdiction shall 
notify the division of the filing at the time of the filing. After 
receiving the notice, the division shall file within seven (7) days with
 such court any report on unresolved issues pursuant to this section 
resulting from a benefit review conference.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 15; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 23.    




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation---> 50-6-241.  Maximum permanent partial disability awards for claims arising after July 1, 2004 but before July 1, 2014 -- Public policy regarding legal immigration. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-241. Maximum
 permanent partial disability awards for claims arising after July 1, 
2004 but before July 1, 2014 -- Public policy regarding legal 
immigration. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 
2014] (a) [Deleted by 2013 amendment, effective July 1, 2014.](b) [Deleted by 2013 amendment, effective July 1, 2014.](c) [Deleted by 2013 amendment, effective July 1, 2014.](d) (1) (A) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 2004, but before July 1, 2014, 
in cases in which an injured employee is eligible to receive any 
permanent partial disability benefits either for body as a whole or for 
schedule member injuries, except schedule member injuries specified in Â§
 50-6-207(3)(A)(ii)(a)-(l), (n), (q), and (r), and the pre-injury 
employer returns the employee to employment at a wage equal to or 
greater than the wage the employee was receiving at the time of the 
injury, the maximum permanent partial disability benefits that the 
employee may receive is one and one half (1 1/2) times the medical 
impairment rating determined pursuant to Â§ 50-6-204(d)(3). In making the
 determinations, the court shall consider all pertinent factors, 
including lay and expert testimony, the employee's age, education, 
skills and training, local job opportunities and capacity to work at 
types of employment available in claimant's disabled condition. (B) (i) If
 an injured employee receives benefits for body as a whole injuries 
pursuant to subdivision (d)(1)(A) and the employee is subsequently no 
longer employed by the pre-injury employer at the wage specified in 
subdivision (d)(1)(A) within four hundred (400) weeks of the day the 
employee returned to work for the pre-injury employer, the employee may 
seek reconsideration of the permanent partial disability benefits. 
Employees who continue in their employment after a reduction in pay or a
 reduction in hours due to economic conditions shall not be entitled to 
reconsideration of their claims under this section if the reduction in 
pay or reduction in hours affected at least fifty percent (50%) of all 
hourly employees operating at or out of the same location. This 
provision does not apply to or include employees involved in layoffs, 
closures or a termination of business operations. (ii) If
 an injured employee receives benefits for schedule member injuries 
pursuant to subdivision (d)(1)(A), and the employee is subsequently no 
longer employed by the pre-injury employer at the wage specified in 
subdivision (d)(1)(A), the employee may seek reconsideration of the 
permanent partial disability benefits. The right to seek the 
reconsideration shall extend for the number of weeks for which the 
employee was eligible to receive benefits under Â§ 50-6-207, beginning 
with the day the employee returned to work for the pre-injury employer. 
Employees who continue in their employment after a reduction in pay or a
 reduction in hours due to economic conditions shall not be entitled to 
reconsideration of their claims under this section if the reduction in 
pay or reduction in hours affected at least fifty percent (50%) of all 
hourly employees operating at or out of the same location. This 
provision does not apply to or include employees involved in layoffs, 
closures or a termination of business operations. (iii) Notwithstanding
 this subdivision (d)(1)(B), under no circumstances shall an employee be
 entitled to reconsideration when the loss of employment is due to 
either: (a) The 
employee's voluntary resignation or retirement; provided, however, that 
the resignation or retirement does not result from the work-related 
disability that is the subject of such reconsideration; or (b) The employee's misconduct connected with the employee's employment. (iv) To
 seek reconsideration pursuant to subdivision (d)(B)(i) or (d)(B)(ii), 
the employee shall first request a benefit review conference within one 
(1) year of the date on which the employee ceased to be employed by the 
pre-injury employer. If the parties are not able to reach an agreement 
regarding additional permanent partial disability benefits at the 
benefit review conference, the employee shall be entitled to file a 
complaint seeking reconsideration in a court of competent jurisdiction 
within ninety (90) days of the date of the benefit review conference. 
Any settlement or award of additional permanent partial disability 
benefits pursuant to reconsideration shall give the employer credit for 
prior permanent partial disability benefits paid to the employee. Any 
new settlement or award regarding additional permanent partial 
disability benefits remains subject to the maximum established in 
subdivision (a)(2) and shall be based on the medical impairment rating 
that was the basis of the previous settlement or award. (v) Notwithstanding
 any other provision of law to the contrary, an employee shall not be 
permitted to waive or forfeit, and the parties shall not be permitted to
 compromise and settle, the employee's rights to reconsideration 
pursuant to this section. (C) (i) Notwithstanding
 any other law to the contrary, for injuries occurring on or after July 
1, 2009, but before July 1, 2014, if an injured employee receives 
permanent partial disability benefits for body as a whole injuries or if
 the injured employee receives permanent partial disability benefits for
 schedule member injuries pursuant to subdivision (d)(1)(A) and the 
pre-injury employer is sold or acquired subsequent to the receipt of the
 permanent partial disability benefits, then the injured employee shall 
not be entitled to seek reconsideration: (a) Provided, that the injured employee continues to be employed by the successor employer at the same or higher pay; or (b) If the employee declines an offer of employment with the successor employer at the same or higher pay. (ii) Notwithstanding subdivision (d)(1)(C)(i), an injured employee shall be entitled to seek reconsideration: (a) From
 the successor employer within four hundred (400) weeks of the day the 
employee returned to work for the pre-injury employer, if the injured 
employee received permanent partial disability benefits for body as a 
whole injuries from the pre-injury employer pursuant to subdivision 
(d)(1)(A) and the injured employee is no longer employed by the 
successor employer at the same or higher pay; or (b) From
 the successor employer within the number of weeks for which the 
employee was eligible to receive benefits from the pre-injury employer 
under Â§ 50-6-207, to be calculated from the day the employee returned to
 work for the pre-injury employer, if the injured employee received 
permanent partial disability benefits for schedule member injuries from 
the pre-injury employer pursuant to subdivision (d)(1)(A) and the 
injured employee is no longer employed by the successor employer at the 
same or higher pay. (iii) Any
 additional permanent partial disability benefits to which the injured 
employee is entitled pursuant to subdivision (d)(1)(C)(ii) shall be paid
 by the successor employer or the insurance carrier for the successor 
employer. (iv) If an 
injured employee is entitled to seek reconsideration pursuant to this 
subdivision (d)(1)(C), then the employee shall first request a benefit 
review conference within one (1) year of the date on which the employee 
ceased to be employed by the successor employer. If the parties are not 
able to reach an agreement regarding additional permanent partial 
disability benefits at the benefit review conference, then the employee 
shall be entitled to file a complaint against the successor employer 
seeking reconsideration in a court of competent jurisdiction within 
ninety (90) days of the date of the benefit review conference. Any 
settlement or award of additional permanent partial disability benefits 
pursuant to reconsideration shall give the successor employer credit for
 the prior permanent partial disability benefits paid by the pre-injury 
employer to the employee. Any new settlement or award regarding 
additional permanent partial disability benefits shall be subject to the
 maximum established in subdivision (d)(2). (2) (A) For
 injuries arising on or after July 1, 2004, but before July 1, 2014, in 
cases in which the pre-injury employer did not return the injured 
employee to employment at a wage equal to or greater than the wage the 
employee was receiving at the time of the injury, the maximum permanent 
partial disability benefits that the employee may receive for body as a 
whole and schedule member injuries may not exceed six (6) times the 
medical impairment rating determined pursuant to Â§ 50-6-204(d)(3). The 
maximum permanent partial disability benefits to which the employee is 
entitled shall be computed utilizing the appropriate maximum number of 
weeks as set forth in Â§ 50-6-207 for the type of injury sustained by the
 employee. In making such determinations, the court shall consider all 
pertinent factors, including lay and expert testimony, the employee's 
age, education, skills and training, local job opportunities, and 
capacity to work at the types of employment available in claimant's 
disabled condition. (B) If the
 court awards a permanent partial disability percentage that equals or 
exceeds five (5) times the medical impairment rating, the court shall 
include specific findings of fact in the order that detail the reasons 
for awarding the maximum permanent partial disability.(e) (1) It
 is the intent of the general assembly to adopt as public policy for 
this state specific provisions related to workers' compensation to 
preserve the tradition of legal immigration while seeking to close the 
door to illegal workers in this state and to encourage the employers of 
this state to comply with federal immigration laws in the hiring or 
continued employment of individuals who are not eligible or authorized 
to work in the United States. (2) The
 general assembly takes notice that federal law prohibits a pre-injury 
employer from permitting an employee to return to work following the 
work-related injury when the employee is not eligible or authorized to 
work in the United States pursuant to federal immigration laws; and, 
therefore, the general assembly adopts the following as the compensation
 to which such an employee is entitled for permanent partial disability 
benefits: (A) For injuries 
occurring on or after July 1, 2009, but before July 1, 2014, in cases in
 which an injured employee is eligible to receive any permanent partial 
disability benefits either for body as whole or schedule member 
injuries, the maximum permanent partial disability benefits that the 
employee may receive is up to one and one half (1 1/2) times the medical
 impairment rating determined pursuant to Â§ 50-6-204(d)(3); provided, 
that the employer did not knowingly hire the employee at a time when the
 employee was not eligible or authorized to work in the United States 
under federal immigration laws. It shall be presumed the employer did 
not knowingly hire the employee at a time when the employee was not 
eligible or authorized to work in the United States under federal 
immigration laws if the employer can show, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, that the employer in good faith complied with the employment 
eligibility and identity verification requirements of federal law when 
the employee was hired: (i) By ensuring the employee completed Section 1 of Form I-9 at the time the employee started to work; (ii) By reviewing the documents provided by the employee to establish the employee's identity and eligibility to work; (iii) By
 making a good faith determination that the documents presented by the 
employee for employment and identity authorization appeared to relate to
 the employee, appeared to be genuine and that the documents provided 
were in the list of acceptable documents on Form I-9; and (iv) By
 reverifying the employment eligibility of the employee upon the 
expiration of the employee's work authorization and by completing 
Section 3 of Form I-9, if applicable; (B) The
 presumption established in subdivision (e)(2)(A) may be rebutted if the
 employee can show, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the 
employer had actual knowledge of the ineligible or unauthorized status 
of the employee at the time of hire or at the time of the injury, or 
both. If the presumption is rebutted, a sum of up to five (5) times the 
medical impairment rating determined by the authorized treating 
physician pursuant to Â§ 50-6-204(d)(3) shall be paid in the following 
manner: (i) A sum up to one
 and one half (1 1/2) times the medical impairment rating shall be paid 
in a lump sum to the employee, the sum to be paid by the employer's 
insurer; and (ii) An 
additional sum up to three and one half (3 1/2) times the medical 
impairment rating shall be paid by the employer, in a lump sum into, and
 shall become a part of, the uninsured employers fund created by Â§ 
50-6-801; provided, that the sum shall not be paid by the employer's 
insurer.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 16; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 9, 10, 11; 2009, ch. 364, Â§
 1; 2009, ch. 526, Â§ 1; 2010, ch. 1034, Â§ 1, 2; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 
85-89.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation---> 50-6-241.  Maximum permanent partial disability award for causes arising on or after August 1, 1992 -- Reconsideration of industrial disability issue -- Awards for claims arising after July 1, 2004 -- Public policy regarding legal immigration.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-241. Maximum
 permanent partial disability award for causes arising on or after 
August 1, 1992 -- Reconsideration of industrial disability issue -- 
Awards for claims arising after July 1, 2004 -- Public policy regarding 
legal immigration. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 
2014.] (a) (1) For 
injuries arising on or after August 1, 1992, and prior to July 1, 2004, 
in cases where an injured employee is eligible to receive any permanent 
partial disability benefits, pursuant to Â§ 50-6-207(3)(A)(i) and (F), 
and the pre-injury employer returns the employee to employment at a wage
 equal to or greater than the wage the employee was receiving at the 
time of injury, the maximum permanent partial disability award that the 
employee may receive is two and one-half (21/2) times the medical 
impairment rating determined pursuant to the American Medical 
Association Guides to the Evaluation of Permanent Impairment (American 
Medical Association), the Manual for Orthopedic Surgeons in Evaluating 
Permanent Physical Impairment (American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons),
 or in cases not covered by either of these, an impairment rating by any
 appropriate method used and accepted by the medical community. In 
making determinations, the court shall consider all pertinent factors, 
including lay and expert testimony, employee's age, education, skills 
and training, local job opportunities, and capacity to work at types of 
employment available in claimant's disabled condition. (2) In
 accordance with this section, the courts may reconsider, upon the 
filing of a new cause of action, the issue of industrial disability. 
Such reconsideration shall examine all pertinent factors, including lay 
and expert testimony, employee's age, education, skills and training, 
local job opportunities, and capacity to work at types of employment 
available in claimant's disabled condition. The reconsideration may be 
made in appropriate cases where the employee is no longer employed by 
the pre-injury employer and makes application to the appropriate court 
within one (1) year of the employee's loss of employment, if the loss of
 employment is within four hundred (400) weeks of the day the employee 
returned to work. In enlarging a previous award, the court must give the
 employer credit for prior benefits paid to the employee in permanent 
partial disability benefits, and any new award remains subject to the 
maximum established in subsection (b).(b) Subject
 to the factors provided in subsection (a), in cases for injuries on or 
after August 1, 1992, and prior to July 1, 2004, where an injured 
employee is eligible to receive permanent partial disability benefits, 
pursuant to Â§ 50-6-207(3)(A)(i) and (F), and the pre-injury employer 
does not return the employee to employment at a wage equal to or greater
 than the wage the employee was receiving at the time of injury, the 
maximum permanent partial disability award that the employee may receive
 is six (6) times the medical impairment rating determined pursuant to 
the American Medical Association Guides to the Evaluation of Permanent 
Impairment (American Medical Association), the Manual for Orthopedic 
Surgeons in Evaluating Permanent Physical Impairment (American Academy 
of Orthopedic Surgeons), or in cases not covered by either of these, an 
impairment rating by any appropriate method used and accepted by the 
medical community. In making such determinations, the court shall 
consider all pertinent factors, including lay and expert testimony, 
employee's age, education, skills and training, local job opportunities,
 and capacity to work at types of employment available in claimant's 
disabled condition.(c) The 
multipliers established by subsections (a) and (b) are intended to be 
maximum limits. If the court awards a multiplier of five (5) or greater,
 then the court shall make specific findings of fact detailing the 
reasons for awarding the maximum impairment. In making the 
determinations, the court shall consider all pertinent factors, 
including lay and expert testimony, employee's age, education, skills 
and training, local job opportunities, and capacity to work at types of 
employment available in claimant's disabled condition.(d) (1) (A) For
 injuries occurring on or after July 1, 2004, in cases in which an 
injured employee is eligible to receive any permanent partial disability
 benefits either for body as a whole or for schedule member injuries, 
except schedule member injuries specified in Â§ 50-6-207(3)(A)(ii)(a)-(l), (n), (q), and (r),
 and the pre-injury employer returns the employee to employment at a 
wage equal to or greater than the wage the employee was receiving at the
 time of the injury, the maximum permanent partial disability benefits 
that the employee may receive is one and one half (11/2) times the 
medical impairment rating determined pursuant to Â§ 50-6-204(d)(3). In 
making the determinations, the court shall consider all pertinent 
factors, including lay and expert testimony, the employee's age, 
education, skills and training, local job opportunities and capacity to 
work at types of employment available in claimant's disabled condition. (B) (i) If
 an injured employee receives benefits for body as a whole injuries 
pursuant to subdivision (d)(1)(A) and the employee is subsequently no 
longer employed by the pre-injury employer at the wage specified in 
subdivision (d)(1)(A) within four hundred (400) weeks of the day the 
employee returned to work for the pre-injury employer, the employee may 
seek reconsideration of the permanent partial disability benefits. 
Employees who continue in their employment after a reduction in pay or a
 reduction in hours due to economic conditions shall not be entitled to 
reconsideration of their claims under this section if the reduction in 
pay or reduction in hours affected at least fifty percent (50%) of all 
hourly employees operating at or out of the same location. This 
provision does not apply to or include employees involved in layoffs, 
closures or a termination of business operations. (ii) If
 an injured employee receives benefits for schedule member injuries 
pursuant to subdivision (d)(1)(A), and the employee is subsequently no 
longer employed by the pre-injury employer at the wage specified in 
subdivision (d)(1)(A), the employee may seek reconsideration of the 
permanent partial disability benefits. The right to seek the 
reconsideration shall extend for the number of weeks for which the 
employee was eligible to receive benefits under Â§ 50-6-207, beginning 
with the day the employee returned to work for the pre-injury employer. 
Employees who continue in their employment after a reduction in pay or a
 reduction in hours due to economic conditions shall not be entitled to 
reconsideration of their claims under this section if the reduction in 
pay or reduction in hours affected at least fifty percent (50%) of all 
hourly employees operating at or out of the same location. This 
provision does not apply to or include employees involved in layoffs, 
closures or a termination of business operations. (iii) Notwithstanding
 this subdivision (d)(1)(B), under no circumstances shall an employee be
 entitled to reconsideration when the loss of employment is due to 
either: (a) The 
employee's voluntary resignation or retirement; provided, however, that 
the resignation or retirement does not result from the work-related 
disability that is the subject of such reconsideration; or (b) The employee's misconduct connected with the employee's employment. (iv) To
 seek reconsideration pursuant to subdivision (d)(B)(i) or (d)(B)(ii), 
the employee shall first request a benefit review conference within one 
(1) year of the date on which the employee ceased to be employed by the 
pre-injury employer. If the parties are not able to reach an agreement 
regarding additional permanent partial disability benefits at the 
benefit review conference, the employee shall be entitled to file a 
complaint seeking reconsideration in a court of competent jurisdiction 
within ninety (90) days of the date of the benefit review conference. 
Any settlement or award of additional permanent partial disability 
benefits pursuant to reconsideration shall give the employer credit for 
prior permanent partial disability benefits paid to the employee. Any 
new settlement or award regarding additional permanent partial 
disability benefits remains subject to the maximum established in 
subdivision (d)(2) and shall be based on the medical impairment rating 
that was the basis of the previous settlement or award. (v) Notwithstanding
 any other law to the contrary, an employee shall not be permitted to 
waive or forfeit, and the parties shall not be permitted to compromise 
and settle, the employee's rights to reconsideration pursuant to this 
section. (C) (i) Notwithstanding
 any other law to the contrary, for injuries occurring on or after July 
1, 2009, if an injured employee receives permanent partial disability 
benefits for body as a whole injuries or if the injured employee 
receives permanent partial disability benefits for schedule member 
injuries pursuant to subdivision (d)(1)(A) and the pre-injury employer 
is sold or acquired subsequent to the receipt of the permanent partial 
disability benefits, then the injured employee shall not be entitled to 
seek reconsideration: (a) Provided, that the injured employee continues to be employed by the successor employer at the same or higher pay; or (b) If the employee declines an offer of employment with the successor employer at the same or higher pay. (ii) Notwithstanding subdivision (d)(1)(C)(i), an injured employee shall be entitled to seek reconsideration: (a) From
 the successor employer within four hundred (400) weeks of the day the 
employee returned to work for the pre-injury employer, if the injured 
employee received permanent partial disability benefits for body as a 
whole injuries from the pre-injury employer pursuant to subdivision 
(d)(1)(A) and the injured employee is no longer employed by the 
successor employer at the same or higher pay; or (b) From
 the successor employer within the number of weeks for which the 
employee was eligible to receive benefits from the pre-injury employer 
under Â§ 50-6-207, to be calculated from the day the employee returned to
 work for the pre-injury employer, if the injured employee received 
permanent partial disability benefits for schedule member injuries from 
the pre-injury employer pursuant to subdivision (d)(1)(A) and the 
injured employee is no longer employed by the successor employer at the 
same or higher pay. (iii) Any
 additional permanent partial disability benefits to which the injured 
employee is entitled pursuant to subdivision (d)(1)(C)(ii) shall be paid
 by the successor employer or the insurance carrier for the successor 
employer. (iv) If an 
injured employee is entitled to seek reconsideration pursuant to this 
subdivision (d)(1)(C), then the employee shall first request a benefit 
review conference within one (1) year of the date on which the employee 
ceased to be employed by the successor employer. If the parties are not 
able to reach an agreement regarding additional permanent partial 
disability benefits at the benefit review conference, then the employee 
shall be entitled to file a complaint against the successor employer 
seeking reconsideration in a court of competent jurisdiction within 
ninety (90) days of the date of the benefit review conference. Any 
settlement or award of additional permanent partial disability benefits 
pursuant to reconsideration shall give the successor employer credit for
 the prior permanent partial disability benefits paid by the pre-injury 
employer to the employee. Any new settlement or award regarding 
additional permanent partial disability benefits shall be subject to the
 maximum established in subdivision (d)(2). (2) (A) For
 injuries arising on or after July 1, 2004, in cases in which the 
pre-injury employer did not return the injured employee to employment at
 a wage equal to or greater than the wage the employee was receiving at 
the time of the injury, the maximum permanent partial disability 
benefits that the employee may receive for body as a whole and schedule 
member injuries subject to subdivision (d)(1)(A) may not exceed six (6) 
times the medical impairment rating determined pursuant to the 
provisions of Â§ 50-6-204(d)(3). The maximum permanent partial disability
 benefits to which the employee is entitled shall be computed utilizing 
the appropriate maximum number of weeks as set forth in Â§ 50-6-207 for 
the type of injury sustained by the employee. In making such 
determinations, the court shall consider all pertinent factors, 
including lay and expert testimony, the employee's age, education, 
skills and training, local job opportunities, and capacity to work at 
types of employment available in claimant's disabled condition. (B) If
 the court awards a permanent partial disability percentage that equals 
or exceeds five (5) times the medical impairment rating, the court shall
 include specific findings of fact in the order that detail the reasons 
for awarding the maximum permanent partial disability.(e) (1) It
 is the intent of the general assembly to adopt as public policy for 
this state specific provisions related to workers' compensation to 
preserve the tradition of legal immigration while seeking to close the 
door to illegal workers in this state and to encourage the employers of 
this state to comply with federal immigration laws in the hiring or 
continued employment of individuals who are not eligible or authorized 
to work in the United States. (2) The
 general assembly takes notice that federal law prohibits a pre-injury 
employer from permitting an employee to return to work following the 
work-related injury when the employee is not eligible or authorized to 
work in the United States pursuant to federal immigration laws; and, 
therefore, the general assembly adopts the following as the compensation
 to which such an employee is entitled for permanent partial disability 
benefits: (A) For injuries 
occurring on or after July 1, 2009, in cases in which an injured 
employee is eligible to receive any permanent partial disability 
benefits either for body as whole or schedule member injuries, the 
maximum permanent partial disability benefits that the employee may 
receive is up to one and one half (1 1/2) times the medical impairment 
rating determined pursuant to Â§ 50-6-204(d)(3); provided, that the 
employer did not knowingly hire the employee at a time when the employee
 was not eligible or authorized to work in the United States under 
federal immigration laws. It shall be presumed the employer did not 
knowingly hire the employee at a time when the employee was not eligible
 or authorized to work in the United States under federal immigration 
laws if the employer can show, by a preponderance of the evidence, that 
the employer in good faith complied with the employment eligibility and 
identity verification requirements of federal law when the employee was 
hired: (i) By ensuring the employee completed Section 1 of Form I-9 at the time the employee started to work; (ii) By reviewing the documents provided by the employee to establish the employee's identity and eligibility to work; (iii) By
 making a good faith determination that the documents presented by the 
employee for employment and identity authorization appeared to relate to
 the employee, appeared to be genuine and that the documents provided 
were in the list of acceptable documents on Form I-9; and (iv) By
 reverifying the employment eligibility of the employee upon the 
expiration of the employee's work authorization and by completing 
Section 3 of Form I-9, if applicable; (B) The
 presumption established in subdivision (e)(2)(A) may be rebutted if the
 employee can show, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the 
employer had actual knowledge of the ineligible or unauthorized status 
of the employee at the time of hire or at the time of the injury, or 
both. If the presumption is rebutted, a sum of up to five (5) times the 
medical impairment rating determined by the authorized treating 
physician pursuant to Â§ 50-6-204(d)(3) shall be paid in the following 
manner: (i) A sum up to one
 and one half (1 1/2) times the medical impairment rating shall be paid 
in a lump sum to the employee, the sum to be paid by the employer's 
insurer; and (ii) An 
additional sum up to three and one half (3 1/2) times the medical 
impairment rating shall be paid by the employer, in a lump sum into, and
 shall become a part of, the uninsured employers fund created by Â§ 
50-6-801; provided, that the sum shall not be paid by the employer's 
insurer.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 16; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 9, 10, 11; 2009, ch. 364, Â§ 1; 2009, ch. 526, Â§ 1; 2010, ch. 1034, Â§ 1, 2.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation---> 50-6-242.  Additional disability benefits -- Award of permanent partial disability benefits for permanent medical impairment in certain cases -- Specific documented findings required -- Employees not eligible or authorized to work in the United States under federal immigration laws are ineligible. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-242. Additional
 disability benefits -- Award of permanent partial disability benefits 
for permanent medical impairment in certain cases -- Specific documented
 findings required -- Employees not eligible or authorized to work in 
the United States under federal immigration laws are 
ineligible. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 
2014.] (a) (1) This 
subsection (a) shall apply to injuries that occur on or after July 1, 
2014, but shall not apply to injuries that occur after June 30, 2016. (2) For
 injuries that occur during the time period set out in subdivision 
(a)(1), in extraordinary cases where the employee is eligible for 
increased benefits under Â§ 50-6-207(3)(B), the employee may receive 
disability benefits of sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the
 employee's pre-injury average weekly wage or salary for a period not to
 exceed the two hundred seventy-five (275) weeks inclusive of the 
benefits provided to the employee under Â§ 50-6-207(3)(A). Benefits may 
be awarded pursuant to this subsection (a), in lieu of the increased 
benefits for which the employee is eligible under Â§ 50-6-207(3)(B), if 
the presiding workers' compensation judge first determines based on 
clear and convincing evidence that limiting the employee's recovery to 
the benefits provided by Â§ 50-6-207(3)(B) would be inequitable in light 
of the totality of the circumstances and the presiding workers' 
compensation judge makes specific, documented findings that as of the 
date of the award or settlement the three (3) following facts concerning
 the employee are true: (A) The
 employee has been assigned an impairment rating of at least ten percent
 (10%) to the body as whole, that has been determined according to the 
AMA guides as defined by Â§ 50-6-102, by the authorized treating 
physician; (B) The authorized 
treating physician has certified on a form provided by the division that
 due to the permanent restrictions on activity the employee has suffered
 as a result of the injury the employee no longer has the ability to 
perform the employee's pre-injury occupation. The authorized treating 
physician's certification pursuant to this subdivision (a)(2)(B) shall 
have a presumption of correctness that may be overcome by the 
presentation of contrary clear and convincing evidence; and (C) The
 employee is not earning an average weekly wage or salary that is 
greater than or equal to seventy percent (70%) of the employee's 
pre-injury average weekly wage or salary.(b) For
 those injuries that occur on or after July 1, 2004 but prior to July 1,
 2014, and notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary
 and in appropriate cases where the employee is eligible to receive the 
maximum permanent partial disability award under Â§ 50-6-241(d)(1)(B) or 
(d)(2), the employee may receive disability benefits not to exceed the 
appropriate maximum number of weeks as set forth in Â§ 50-6-207 for the 
type of injury sustained by the employee. In those cases, the court or 
workers' compensation specialist shall make specific documented 
findings, supported by clear and convincing evidence, that as of the 
date of the award or settlement, at least three (3) of the following 
facts concerning the employee are true: (1) The
 employee lacks a high school diploma or general equivalency diploma or 
the employee cannot read or write on a grade eight (8) level; (2) The employee is fifty-five (55) years of age or older; (3) The employee has no reasonably transferable job skills from prior vocational background and training; and (4) The
 employee has no reasonable employment opportunities available locally 
considering the employee's permanent medical condition.(c) Subsections
 (a) and (b) shall not apply to injuries sustained on or after July 1, 
2009, by an employee who is not eligible or authorized to work in the 
United States under federal immigration laws.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 18; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 12; 2009, ch. 526, Â§ 2; 
2013, ch. 282, Â§ 8; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 90; 2014, ch. 903, Â§ 7, 13.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-242.  Additional disability benefits -- Award of permanent partial disability benefits for permanent medical impairment in certain cases -- Specific documented findings required -- Employees not eligible or authorized to work in the United States under federal immigration laws are ineligible. [Effective on July 1, 2014. See the version effective until July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 




Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-242. Additional
 disability benefits -- Award of permanent partial disability benefits 
for permanent medical impairment in certain cases -- Specific documented
 findings required -- Employees not eligible or authorized to work in 
the United States under federal immigration laws are 
ineligible. [Effective on July 1, 2014. See the version effective until 
July 1, 2014.] (a) For those 
injuries that occur on or after July 1, 2014, in appropriate cases where
 the employee has not returned to work and is entitled to additional 
benefits under Â§ 50-6-207(3)(B), the employee may receive additional 
disability benefits not to exceed the maximum number of weeks as set 
forth in Â§ 50-6-207(2)(B). In such cases, the court or the workers' 
compensation judge shall make specific documented findings, supported by
 clear and convincing evidence, that as of the date of the award or 
settlement, at least three (3) of the following facts concerning the 
employee are true: (1) The 
employee lacks a high school diploma or general equivalency diploma, or 
the employee cannot read or write on a grade eight (8) level; (2) The employee is fifty-five (55) years of age or older; (3) The employee has no reasonably transferable job skills from prior vocational background and training; and (4) The
 employee has no reasonable employment opportunities available locally 
considering the employee's permanent medical condition.(b) For
 those injuries that occur on or after July 1, 2004, and notwithstanding
 any provision of this chapter to the contrary and in appropriate cases 
where the employee is eligible to receive the maximum permanent partial 
disability award under Â§ 50-6-207(3)(B), the employee may receive 
disability benefits not to exceed the appropriate maximum number of 
weeks as set forth in Â§ 50-6-207 for the type of injury sustained by the
 employee. In those cases, the workers' compensation judge shall make 
specific documented findings, supported by clear and convincing 
evidence, that as of the date of the award or settlement, at least three
 (3) of the following facts concerning the employee are true: (1) The
 employee lacks a high school diploma or general equivalency diploma or 
the employee cannot read or write on a grade eight (8) level; (2) The employee is fifty-five (55) years of age or older; (3) The employee has no reasonably transferable job skills from prior vocational background and training; and (4) The
 employee has no reasonable employment opportunities available locally 
considering the employee's permanent medical condition.(c) Subsections
 (a) and (b) shall not apply to injuries sustained on or after July 1, 
2009, by an employee who is not eligible or authorized to work in the 
United States under federal immigration laws.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 18; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 12; 2009, ch. 526, Â§ 2; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 8; 2013, ch. 289, Â§ 90.    







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-243.  Agreements to receive payments greater than the schedule provides -- Applicability.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-243. Agreements
 to receive payments greater than the schedule provides -- 
Applicability. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 
2014.] (a) An employee may 
sign an agreement before or after an injury resulting in temporary total
 disability due to an accident arising out of and in the course of 
employment in which the employee may receive from the employer, for up 
to six (6) months after the date of injury, an amount greater than the 
schedule of compensation for the injury in Â§ 50-6-207. Any agreed 
payment that is greater than the amount provided by Â§ 50-6-207 shall be 
credited as an offset to any subsequent award or settlement for 
permanent partial disability, permanent total disability, or death 
benefits.(b) If the employee's 
temporary total disability exceeds six (6) months from the date of 
injury, any payments greater than those provided by Â§ 50-6-207, made 
after that date, shall not be credited as an offset to any subsequent 
award or settlement for permanent partial disability, permanent total 
disability, or death benefits.(c) This section applies to employees of municipalities, counties, and other governmental entities.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 1002, Â§ 1.    




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation---> 50-6-244.  Statistical data form for assessment of workers' compensation system -- Penalty for noncompliance.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-244. Statistical
 data form for assessment of workers' compensation system -- Penalty for
 noncompliance. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 
2014.] (a) The department 
shall develop a statistical data form for collecting data relevant to 
assessing the workers' compensation system. In developing or altering 
the form, the department shall seek written comment from the advisory 
council on workers' compensation and the administrative office of the 
courts. The administrator shall submit the proposed form to the commerce
 and labor committee of the senate, and the consumer and human resources
 committee of the house of representatives, together with any written 
comments of the advisory council on workers' compensation and the 
administrative office of the courts, prior to submission of a proposed 
rule to the attorney general and reporter. The administrator shall 
promulgate the form by rule, pursuant to the Uniform Administrative 
Procedures Act, compiled in title 4, chapter 5.(b) (1) A
 statistical data form shall be filed for every workers' compensation 
matter that is concluded by settlement, whether approved by a court or 
the department. A statistical data form shall be filed for every 
workers' compensation matter that is concluded by a trial so that the 
form reflects the trial court's ruling and information that is current 
as of the date the trial order is submitted to the court for approval, 
whether or not an appeal of the matter is anticipated or filed. A 
statistical data form shall be either typed or completed by computer 
using a form available on the web site of the division of workers' 
compensation. (2) A statistical 
data form is not required to be filed in cases that involve 
reconsideration of a prior settlement or trial judgment order for which a
 statistical data form was filed at the time of submission of the prior 
order. A statistical data form is not required to be filed if the only 
issue resolved by an order is the closing of future medical benefits 
that remained open pursuant to a prior order for which a statistical 
data form was filed at the time of submission of the prior order. (3) In
 cases involving a workers' compensation settlement that is approved by a
 court, the completed statistical data form shall be filed at the same 
time as the order approving the settlement is filed and shall be filed 
with the clerk of the court in which the settlement order is filed. A 
clerk of the court shall not accept a settlement order for filing, 
unless it is accompanied by a fully completed statistical data form. (4) In
 cases involving a workers' compensation case that is resolved by trial,
 the completed statistical data form shall be filed at the same time as 
the final order is submitted to the trial court for approval and shall 
be filed with the clerk of the court in which the matter was tried. A 
clerk of the court shall not accept a trial order for filing, unless it 
is accompanied by a fully completed statistical data form. (5) A
 settlement order of a court in a workers' compensation matter is not 
final until the statistical data form required by this section is fully 
completed and filed with the appropriate clerk of the court. (6) A
 workers' compensation trial order is not final until the statistical 
data form required by this section is fully completed and filed with the
 appropriate clerk of the court. In the event of an appeal of a workers'
 compensation trial verdict to the supreme court of Tennessee, this 
section shall neither abrogate nor supersede the Rules of Appellate 
Procedure regarding the computation of the time for the proper filing of
 a notice of appeal. The information submitted in the statistical data 
form shall not be admissible on appeal for any purpose.(c) The
 clerk of the court shall forward to the administrator of the division 
of workers' compensation, on or before the tenth day of each calendar 
month, all workers' compensation statistical data forms filed with the 
clerk during the preceding calendar month.(d) In
 cases involving a workers' compensation settlement that is submitted to
 the department for approval, the statistical data form required by this
 section shall also be completed and submitted to the department at the 
time of the submission of the settlement for approval. A settlement 
approved by the department shall not become final until the statistical 
data form required by this section is fully completed and received by 
the department.(e) It is the 
responsibility of the employer or the employer's agent to complete and 
file the form required by this section, contemporaneously with the 
filing of the final order or settlement. The employee and any agent of 
the employee are required to cooperate with the employer in completing 
this form.(f) (1) If the 
administrator or the administrator's designee determines that an insurer
 or self-insured employer fails to complete substantially and file the 
statistical data forms with such frequency as to indicate a general 
business practice, the administrator may assess a monetary penalty 
against the insurance company for the employer or against the employer, 
if self insured. The amount of the monetary penalty shall not exceed one
 hundred dollars ($100). For the purposes of this subsection (f), 
"general business practice" means an insurer or self-insured employer 
fails to complete substantially and file a statistical data form more 
than five (5) times. (2) No 
monetary penalty may be assessed by the administrator, or the 
administrators's designee, with respect to a form that has been filed 
with the division of workers' compensation for more than ninety (90) 
days. No monetary penalty may be assessed for a statistical data form 
that was not filed with the court clerk more than ninety (90) days from 
the date of entry of the final order of the court. No monetary penalty 
may be assessed due to the failure to provide information on the 
statistical data form that is solely within the knowledge of the 
employee or due solely to the failure of the employee to sign the form. (3) An
 insurance company or self insured employer assessed a monetary penalty 
by the administrator pursuant to this subsection (f), may appeal the 
penalty under the Uniform Administrative Procedures Act. The 
administrator, or an agency member appointed by the administrator, shall
 have the authority to hear as a contested case an administrative appeal
 of any monetary penalty assessed pursuant to this subsection (f).HISTORY: Acts 1998, ch. 1024, Â§ 3; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2003, ch. 359, Â§ 3, 4; 
2005, ch. 429, Â§ 13; 2011, ch. 410, Â§ 10(c); 2013, ch. 236, Â§ 31; 2013, 
ch. 282, Â§ 1.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-244.  Statistical data form for assessment of workers' compensation system -- Penalty for noncompliance.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-244. Statistical
 data form for assessment of workers' compensation system -- Penalty for
 noncompliance. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 
2014.] (a) The department 
shall develop a statistical data form for collecting data relevant to 
assessing the workers' compensation system. In developing or altering 
the form, the department shall seek written comment from the advisory 
council on workers' compensation and the administrative office of the 
courts. The commissioner shall submit the proposed form to the commerce 
and labor committee of the senate, and the consumer and human resources 
committee of the house of representatives, together with any written 
comments of the advisory council on workers' compensation and the 
administrative office of the courts, prior to submission of a proposed 
rule to the attorney general and reporter. The commissioner shall 
promulgate the form by rule, pursuant to the Uniform Administrative 
Procedures Act, compiled in title 4, chapter 5.(b) (1) A
 statistical data form shall be filed for every workers' compensation 
matter that is concluded by settlement, whether approved by a court or 
the department. A statistical data form shall be filed for every 
workers' compensation matter that is concluded by a trial so that the 
form reflects the trial court's ruling and information that is current 
as of the date the trial order is submitted to the court for approval, 
whether or not an appeal of the matter is anticipated or filed. A 
statistical data form shall be either typed or completed by computer 
using a form available on the web site of the division of workers' 
compensation. (2) A statistical 
data form is not required to be filed in cases that involve 
reconsideration of a prior settlement or trial judgment order for which a
 statistical data form was filed at the time of submission of the prior 
order. A statistical data form is not required to be filed if the only 
issue resolved by an order is the closing of future medical benefits 
that remained open pursuant to a prior order for which a statistical 
data form was filed at the time of submission of the prior order. (3) In
 cases involving a workers' compensation settlement that is approved by a
 court, the completed statistical data form shall be filed at the same 
time as the order approving the settlement is filed and shall be filed 
with the clerk of the court in which the settlement order is filed. A 
clerk of the court shall not accept a settlement order for filing, 
unless it is accompanied by a fully completed statistical data form. (4) In
 cases involving a workers' compensation case that is resolved by trial,
 the completed statistical data form shall be filed at the same time as 
the final order is submitted to the trial court for approval and shall 
be filed with the clerk of the court in which the matter was tried. A 
clerk of the court shall not accept a trial order for filing, unless it 
is accompanied by a fully completed statistical data form. (5) A
 settlement order of a court in a workers' compensation matter is not 
final until the statistical data form required by this section is fully 
completed and filed with the appropriate clerk of the court. (6) A
 workers' compensation trial order is not final until the statistical 
data form required by this section is fully completed and filed with the
 appropriate clerk of the court. In the event of an appeal of a workers'
 compensation trial verdict to the supreme court of Tennessee, this 
section shall neither abrogate nor supersede the Rules of Appellate 
Procedure regarding the computation of the time for the proper filing of
 a notice of appeal. The information submitted in the statistical data 
form shall not be admissible on appeal for any purpose.(c) The
 clerk of the court shall forward to the administrator of the division 
of workers' compensation, on or before the tenth day of each calendar 
month, all workers' compensation statistical data forms filed with the 
clerk during the preceding calendar month.(d) In
 cases involving a workers' compensation settlement that is submitted to
 the department for approval, the statistical data form required by this
 section shall also be completed and submitted to the department at the 
time of the submission of the settlement for approval. A settlement 
approved by the department shall not become final until the statistical 
data form required by this section is fully completed and received by 
the department.(e) It is the 
responsibility of the employer or the employer's agent to complete and 
file the form required by this section, contemporaneously with the 
filing of the final order or settlement. The employee and any agent of 
the employee are required to cooperate with the employer in completing 
this form.(f) (1) If the 
commissioner or the commissioner's designee determines that an insurer 
or self-insured employer fails to complete substantially and file the 
statistical data forms with such frequency as to indicate a general 
business practice, the commissioner may assess a monetary penalty 
against the insurance company for the employer or against the employer, 
if self insured. The amount of the monetary penalty shall not exceed one
 hundred dollars ($100). For the purposes of this subsection (f), 
"general business practice" means an insurer or self-insured employer 
fails to complete substantially and file a statistical data form more 
than five (5) times. (2) No 
monetary penalty may be assessed by the commissioner, or the 
commissioner's designee, with respect to a form that has been filed with
 the division of workers' compensation for more than ninety (90) days. 
No monetary penalty may be assessed for a statistical data form that was
 not filed with the court clerk more than ninety (90) days from the date
 of entry of the final order of the court. No monetary penalty may be 
assessed due to the failure to provide information on the statistical 
data form that is solely within the knowledge of the employee or due 
solely to the failure of the employee to sign the form. (3) An
 insurance company or self insured employer assessed a monetary penalty 
by the commissioner pursuant to this subsection (f), may appeal the 
penalty under the Uniform Administrative Procedures Act, compiled in 
title 4, chapter 5. The commissioner, or an agency member appointed by 
the commissioner, shall have the authority to hear as a contested case 
an administrative appeal of any monetary penalty assessed pursuant to 
this subsection (f).HISTORY: Acts 1998, ch. 1024, Â§ 3; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2003, ch. 359, Â§ 3, 4; 
2005, ch. 429, Â§ 13; 2011, ch. 410, Â§ 10(c); 2013, ch. 236, Â§ 31.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-245.  Judgments with multiple findings and separate awards.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-245. Judgments with multiple findings and separate awards. 
 [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 
1, 2014.] (a) If following a 
civil action in a workers' compensation case filed pursuant to Â§ 
50-6-225, the court enters a judgment or decree that includes multiple 
findings with separate awards of payment to the employee, the following 
shall apply: (1) If the employer,
 insurer or employee appeals one (1) or more of the findings but not 
all, any payments owed to the employee as the result of a finding not 
appealed shall be due and payable to the employee when the time for 
appealing the judgment or decree has expired. (2) If
 the employer, insurer or employee appeals more than one (1) of the 
findings and the supreme court grants permission to appeal as to at 
least one (1) of the findings appealed but not all, any payments owed to
 the employee as the result of a finding not appealed or for which 
permission to appeal was not granted shall be due and payable to the 
employee when the time for appealing the judgment or decree has expired.(b) (1) When
 the time for filing an appeal has expired under subdivision (a)(1), the
 court, unless in its discretion it determines otherwise, shall enter 
final judgment pursuant to Rule 54.02 of the Rules of Civil Procedure as
 to all findings not appealed. (2) When
 the time for filing an appeal has expired under subdivision (a)(2), the
 supreme court, unless in its discretion it determines otherwise, shall 
issue a mandate pursuant to Rule 42 of the Rules of Appellate Procedure 
as to all findings for which permission to appeal was not granted.HISTORY: Acts 2000, ch. 738, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 2. Claims And Payment Of Compensation--->50-6-246.  Rules and regulations governing medical impairment rating.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-246. Rules and regulations governing medical impairment rating. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] To
 assure employees, employers and the department have the information 
necessary to resolve a workers' compensation claim and to effectuate the
 legislative intent of Â§ 50-6-241, the commissioner of labor and 
workforce development shall establish rules, in accordance with the 
Uniform Administrative Procedures Act, compiled in title 4, chapter 5, 
to govern the provision of a medical impairment rating required by Â§ 
50-6-204(d)(3)(A). The commissioner shall promulgate these rules in 
conjunction with the advisory council on workers' compensation. The 
rules required by this section shall take effect on October 1, 2008. The
 commissioner is authorized to use emergency rules under former Â§ 
4-5-209(a)(4) or emergency rules under Â§ 4-5-208, as appropriate, in 
order to have such rules in effect no later than October 1, 2008.HISTORY: Acts 2002, ch. 523, Â§ 3; 2008, ch. 1183, Â§ 8.        


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 3. Occupational Diseases--->50-6-301.  "Occupational diseases" defined.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








   50-6-301. "Occupational diseases" defined. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) As
 used in this chapter, "occupational diseases" means all diseases 
arising out of and in the course of employment. A disease shall be 
deemed to arise out of the employment only if: (1) It
 can be determined to have followed as a natural incident of the work as
 a result of the exposure occasioned by the nature of the employment; (2) It can be fairly traced to the employment as a proximate cause; (3) It has not originated from a hazard to which workers would have been equally exposed outside of the employment; (4) It is incidental to the character of the employment and not independent of the relation of employer and employee; (5) It
 originated from a risk connected with the employment and flowed from 
that source as a natural consequence, though it need not have been 
foreseen or expected prior to its contraction; and (6) There
 is a direct causal connection between the conditions under which the 
work is performed and the occupational disease. Diseases of the heart, 
lung, and hypertension arising out of and in the course of any type of 
employment shall be deemed to be occupational diseases.(b) Cumulative
 trauma conditions, hearing loss, carpal tunnel syndrome, and all other 
repetitive motion conditions shall not be considered an occupational 
disease unless such conditions arose primarily out of and in the course 
and scope of employment. The opinion of the physician, selected by the 
employee from the employer's designated panel of physicians pursuant to 
Â§ 50-6-204(a)(4)(A) or (a)(4)(B), shall be presumed correct on the 
issue of causation but said presumption shall be rebutted by a 
preponderance of the evidence.HISTORY: Acts 1947, ch. 139, Â§ 1; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6852; Acts 1959, ch. 172, Â§ 
12; 1969, ch. 60, Â§ 1; 1971, ch. 134, Â§ 5; 1973, ch. 122, Â§ 1; 1977, ch.
 339, Â§ 2, 5; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 
50-1101; Acts 2011, ch. 416, Â§ 9. 


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 3. Occupational Diseases--->50-6-302.  Retroactivity -- Coal worker's pneumoconiosis, effect of federal law.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-302. Retroactivity -- Coal worker's pneumoconiosis, effect of 
federal law. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and
 after July 1, 2014.]  (a) An occupational disease that an employee had on March 12, 1947, shall not be covered under this chapter. An employee has an occupational disease within the meaning of this chapter if the disease or condition has developed to such an extent that it can be diagnosed as an occupational disease. In every suit for compensation benefits, the burden shall be on the employee to prove that such employee did not have, as of such date, the occupational disease for which such employee is seeking compensation.   (b) In considering whether an employee has the occupational disease of coal worker's pneumoconiosis and is totally disabled or dies therefrom, all the presumptions, criteria and standards contained in or promulgated by reason of the federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, Pub. L. No. 91-173 (30 U.S.C. Â§ 901 et seq.), specified as the basis for determining eligibility of applicants for benefits because of the disease or its effects shall be used and be applicable under this chapter, and where in a proceeding under this chapter for benefits it is determined the employee or the employee's dependents would be entitled to benefits under the federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, and the Black Lung Benefits Act of 1972 (Pub. L. No. 92-303 as amended (30 U.S.C. Â§ 901 et seq.)), the employee or the employee's dependents by reason of the determination shall be considered totally disabled from coal worker's pneumoconiosis and its effects, under this chapter the same as if the employee, or the employee's dependents, establishes the right to recover benefits based upon a total disability from coal worker's pneumoconiosis, or death by reason thereof under the laws of this state.   [Acts 1947, ch. 139, Â§ 1; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6852; Acts 1971, ch. 300, Â§ 4; 1980, ch. 739, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1102.] 


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 3. Occupational Diseases--->50-6-303.  Compensation and benefits.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-303. Compensation and benefits. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]   (a) (1) When the employer and employee are subject to the provisions of the Workers' Compensation Law, compiled in this chapter, the partial or total incapacity for work or the death of an employee resulting from an occupational disease as defined in Â§ 50-6-301, shall be treated as the happening of an injury by accident or death by accident, and the employee, or in case of the employee's death, the employee's dependents, shall be entitled to compensation as provided in this chapter.   (2) An employee who has an occupational disease shall be entitled to the same hospital, medical and miscellaneous benefits as an employee who has a compensable injury by accident, and, in the event of death, the same funeral benefit shall be paid as in the case of death from a compensable accident.   (b) (1) An employee totally disabled due to coal workers' pneumoconiosis shall be paid benefits during disability as provided for by the federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969 (30 U.S.C. Â§ 901 et seq.).   (2) In accordance with such federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, if the employee has one (1) or more dependents, the payments shall be increased fifty percent (50%) of such payments for the first dependent, seventy-five percent (75%) for two (2) dependents, and one hundred percent (100%) for three (3) or more dependents.   (3) In case of death of an employee receiving benefits under this chapter, benefits shall be paid to such employee's surviving spouse and any dependents in the same manner provided in the federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as applicable to employees suffering from coal workers' pneumoconiosis.   (4) Benefits paid under this subsection (b) shall not be subject to the maximum compensation limitations set forth in Â§ 50-6-205, 50-6-207(1), (3) and (4), 50-6-209, 50-6-210(e)(10) or any other sections of the Workers' Compensation Law, compiled in this chapter, but the maximum compensation limitations shall be controlled exclusively by the maximum compensation benefits and limitations established under the federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969 (30 U.S.C. Â§ 901 et seq.), as applicable to employees suffering from coal workers' pneumoconiosis.   (5) However, the minimum compensation limitations for employees suffering from coal workers' pneumoconiosis shall be no less than those set forth in such federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969.    [Acts 1947, ch. 139, Â§ 1; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6852; Acts 1971, ch. 300, Â§ 5; 1972, ch. 699, Â§ 6; 1975, ch. 210, Â§ 1; 1977, ch. 339, Â§ 3; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1105; Acts 1985, ch. 325, Â§ 1.]  


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 3. Occupational Diseases--->50-6-304.  Last employer liable.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-304. Last employer liable. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]  When an employee has an occupational disease, the employer in whose employment such employee was last injuriously exposed to the hazards of the disease, and the employer's insurance carrier, if any, at the time of the exposure, shall alone be liable therefor, without right to contribution from any prior employer or insurance carrier.   [Acts 1947, ch. 139, Â§ 1; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6852; Acts 1977, ch. 339, Â§ 4; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1106.] 


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 3. Occupational Diseases--->50-6-305.  Notice of contraction of disease and claim for compensation.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








  50-6-305. Notice of contraction of disease and claim for 
compensation. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on 
and after July 1, 2014.]  (a) Within thirty (30) days after the first distinct manifestation of an occupational disease, the employee, or someone in the employee's behalf, shall give written notice thereof to the employer in the same manner as is provided in the case of a compensable accidental injury.   (b) This section shall not apply to claims for total disability or death due to or resulting from an asbestos-related disease or coal worker's pneumoconiosis.   [Acts 1947, ch. 139, Â§ 1; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6852; Acts 1971, ch. 300, Â§ 6; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1107; Acts 1997, ch. 177, Â§ 1.] 


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 3. Occupational Diseases--->50-6-306.  Statute of limitations.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-306. Statute of limitations. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]  (a) The right to compensation for an occupational disease or a claim for death benefits as a result of an occupational disease shall be forever barred, unless a claim is initiated pursuant to Â§ 50-6- 203; provided, however, that the applicable time limitation period or periods shall commence as of the date of the beginning of the incapacity for work resulting from an occupational disease or upon the date death results from the occupational disease; provided, however, that if upon the date of the death of the employee the employee's claim has become barred, the claim of the employee's dependent or dependents shall likewise be barred, and in such case the claim shall be barred whether or not the employer gives the notice required by Â§ 50-6-224(2).   (b) A claim for benefits or death due to coal worker's pneumoconiosis shall be timely filed if such claim is instituted pursuant to Â§ 50-6-203 within three (3) years of the discovery of total disability or the date of such death, as the case may be.   [Acts 1947, ch. 139, Â§ 1; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6852; Acts 1971, ch. 300, Â§ 7; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1108; Acts 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 21.] 


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 3. Occupational Diseases--->50-6-307.  Waiver of compensation for aggravation of condition.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








  50-6-307. Waiver of compensation for aggravation of condition. 
 [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 
1, 2014.]   (a) (1) When an employee, or prospective employee, though not incapacitated for work, is found to be affected by or susceptible to a specific occupational disease, the employee or prospective employee may, subject to the approval of the workers' compensation division of the department of labor and workforce development, be permitted to waive in writing compensation for any aggravation of the employee's or prospective employee's condition that may result from the employee's or prospective employee's working or continuing to work in the same or similar occupation for the same employer or for another employer; provided, that this provision shall not apply to specific occupational diseases on which waivers are prohibited by the federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969.   (2) All provisions of the Workers' Compensation Law, compiled in this chapter, with respect to accidents shall be applicable to the coverage provided in this part for occupational diseases, except as otherwise provided in this part.   (b) When an employee or prospective employee has a prior history of heart disease, heart attack or coronary failure or occlusion, the employee or prospective employee may be permitted to waive in writing compensation from the employee's or prospective employee's employer or future employer for claims growing out of an aggravation or repetition of such condition, such waiver to be evidenced by filing with the administrator a written instrument to which shall be attached a copy of a medical statement giving the prior history of such condition, and in all such cases claims for workers' compensation benefits growing out of an aggravation or repetition of such condition by such employee or the employee's dependents shall be barred.   (c) No employer shall require the execution of a waiver by any employee who was at work on March 17, 1961, unless such employee subsequently suffers a heart condition as defined herein.    [Acts 1947, ch. 139, Â§ 1; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6852; Acts 1961, ch. 339, Â§ 1; 1972, ch. 699, Â§ 7; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1109; Acts 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41.] 


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-401.  Authority to write insurance -- Tax.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-401. Authority to write insurance -- Tax. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
 (a) (1) (A) Every person, partnership, association, organizationor corporation, whether organized under the laws of this or any otherstate or country, that has or may hereafter comply with the laws ofthis state and is authorized to write accident or indemnity insurancein this state shall be authorized and empowered to write workers'compensation insurance under the terms and provisions of this part,and likewise every reciprocal and mutual insurance association orcorporation shall have the same privileges; provided, that any suchentity offering workers' compensation insurance shall be required tooffer medical benefits coverage for paid-on-call and volunteerfirefighters.  (B) For purposes of this subdivision (a)(1), "volunteerfirefighter" means any member or personnel of a fire department,volunteer fire department, rescue squad or volunteer rescue squad,including, but not limited to, a junior member, a board member or anauxiliary member of the department or squad. (2) An entity offering workers' compensation insurance shalloffer coverage for members of rescue squads on similar terms andconditions as coverage available to full-time paid firefighters oremergency medical services personnel.(b) (1) All insurance carriers provided for by this section shallbe subject to a tax of four percent (4%) on premiums collected forworkers' compensation insurance, and a surcharge of four tenths ofone percent (0.4%) of the premiums, the surcharge to be earmarked forthe administration of the Tennessee Occupational Safety and HealthAct, compiled in chapter 3 of this title, and this shall be in lieuof any other tax on premiums for the writing of the business ofworkers' compensation insurance now provided for by law. (2) The surcharge of four tenths of one percent (0.4%) on the taxon workers' compensation insurance premiums levied by this sectionshall not apply to any employer who employs ten (10) or feweremployees unless the employer is in the business of construction ormanufacturing.(c) Of the funds collected pursuant to subsection (b), a sumsufficient shall be allocated from and equal to an amount not greaterthan fifty percent (50%) of the revenues derived from the premium taxlevied pursuant to this section, and shall be paid into the secondinjury fund created in Â§ 50-6-208, to provide payments for thebenefits provided in Â§ 50-6-208.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 40; 1923, ch. 84, Â§ 4; Shan. Supp., Â§3608a190; Code 1932, Â§ 6894; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6894; impl. am. Acts1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; Acts 1981, ch. 396, Â§ 3, 4; T.C.A. (orig. ed.),Â§ 50-1201; Acts 1985, ch. 393, Â§ 17; 1988, ch. 707, Â§ 1, 2; 1995,ch. 449, Â§ 1; 1997, ch. 533, Â§ 51; 2013, ch. 210, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-402.  Classification of risks and premiums -- Filing -- Approval.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








   50-6-402. Classification of risks and premiums -- Filing -- 
Approval. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and 
after July 1, 2014.] (a) In
 determining classifications of risks and premiums relating to the 
classification, the insurer may include allowances of any character made
 to any employee, only when the allowances are in lieu of wages, and are
 specified as part of the wage contract.(b) Before
 approving any workers' compensation loss cost filing made by the 
designated rate service organization pursuant to this part or title 56, 
the commissioner of commerce and insurance shall consult with the 
advisory council on workers' compensation concerning the filing. The 
council shall have sixty (60) days to provide written comment on the 
filing. The council shall meet to provide the comment. The commissioner 
of commerce and insurance shall approve, disapprove or modify the filing
 within ninety (90) days of receiving the filing. If the commissioner of
 commerce and insurance modifies the filing, the modification shall be 
within the range established by the recommendation of the rate service 
organization in its filing and the recommendation of the advisory 
council on workers' compensation. In instances when the commissioner of 
commerce and insurance modifies the filing, the rate service 
organization shall develop a plan that reflects the commissioner's 
modification, unless the organization appeals the modification pursuant 
to Â§ 56-5-308. The commissioner shall report the action taken on the 
filing to the commerce and labor committee of the senate, and the 
consumer and human resources committee of the house of representatives 
and to the speakers of the senate and the house of representatives.(c) Prior
 to the commissioner of commerce and insurance establishing the 
multiplier to be applied to the assigned risk plan, as provided in Â§ 
56-5-314(c), the commissioner shall provide notice of the intended 
action, including supporting rationale for the action, to the advisory 
council on workers' compensation. The council may, within fifteen (15) 
days of receipt of the notice, provide written comment and 
recommendation to the commissioner related to the intended action. After
 the fifteen-day period has expired, the commissioner shall establish 
the multiplier, by order, as provided in Â§ 56-5-314(c).(d) The
 commissioner of commerce and insurance shall report quarterly to the 
advisory council on workers' compensation concerning all workers' 
compensation filings made by the designated rate service organization 
received by the department of commerce and insurance that were not 
referred to the council as set out in subsection (b) since the last 
report.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 40; 1923, ch. 84, Â§ 4; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a190; 
Code 1932, Â§ 6894; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6894; impl. am. Acts 1971, ch. 137, Â§
 2; Acts 1972, ch. 456, Â§ 1; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. 
(orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1202; Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 32, 33; 1998, ch. 1024, Â§
 15; 2001, ch. 192, Â§ 2; 2003, ch. 359, Â§ 5, 6; 2011, ch. 410, Â§ 10(d);
 2013, ch. 236, Â§ 31.    


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance---> 50-6-403.  [Repealed.]
===================================================================



 




50-6-403. [Repealed.] 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-404.  Bond or certificate.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-404. Bond or certificate. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]  (a) (1) Every insurance company doing a workers' compensation business in this state shall furnish a bond running to the state in the sum of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) with some surety company authorized to transact business in this state as surety, in such form as may be approved by the commissioner of commerce and insurance, conditioned for the payment of compensation losses on policies issued by such company upon risks located in the state of Tennessee.   (2) Suit may be brought upon such bond by the division of workers' compensation for the use and benefit of any party or parties at interest.   (3) The annual license of such company shall not be issued or renewed until it has filed with the commissioner of commerce and insurance a bond as required in subdivision (a)(1).   (4) In lieu of such bond, a deposit of the same amount may be made with the state treasurer in the form of other security satisfactory to the commissioner of commerce and insurance.   (b) The commissioner may, in the commissioner's discretion, accept, in lieu of the bond required in subdivision (a)(1), a certificate from the commissioner of insurance or other corresponding official of the state in which the insurance company is organized and domiciled, that such company has on deposit in such state the sum of not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) in cash, or its equivalent, which deposit is for the protection of all of its policyholders, ratably.    [Acts 1933, ch. 158, Â§ 1; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6894; impl. am. Acts 1971, ch. 137, Â§ 2; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1204.]      


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-405.  Compensation insurance or proof of financial ability required -- Self insurers -- Payment of premiums -- Excess catastrophe reinsurance coverage -- Authority and duty of administrator.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-405. Compensation
 insurance or proof of financial ability required -- Self insurers -- 
Payment of premiums -- Excess catastrophe reinsurance coverage -- 
Authority and duty of administrator. [Applicable to injuries occurring 
on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) Every employer under and affected by this chapter, shall: (1) Insure
 and keep insured the employer's liability under this chapter in some 
person or persons, association, organization or corporation authorized 
to transact the business of workers' compensation insurance in this 
state; or (2) Possess a valid 
certificate of authority from the commissioner of commerce and insurance
 by furnishing satisfactory proof of the employer's financial ability to
 pay all claims that may arise against the employer under this chapter 
and guarantee the payment of the claims in the amount and manner and 
when due as provided for in this chapter.(b) (1) If
 the employer elects to proceed under subdivision (a)(2), the 
commissioner of commerce and insurance shall require the applicant to 
pay a nonrefundable application fee of five hundred dollars ($500) or in
 an amount the commissioner shall promulgate by rule. (2) The
 commissioner of commerce and insurance shall require the applicant to 
file and maintain with the department of commerce and insurance the 
following: (A) (i) Security,
 in an amount to be determined by the commissioner of commerce and 
insurance, but not less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000), 
in any of the following forms, as specified herein: negotiable 
securities; a surety bond; a certificate of deposit; or a letter of 
credit; (ii) The security, 
or a contract between the self-insured employer, a depository 
institution and the commissioner of commerce and insurance evidencing 
the security held in the depository institution for purposes of 
compliance with this section, shall be held by the commissioner of 
commerce and insurance and shall be conditioned to run solely and 
directly for the benefit of the employees of the self-insured employer. 
Any legal actions to enforce the payment of the security being held for 
purposes of compliance with this section shall be brought by the 
commissioner of commerce and insurance for the benefit of the employees 
of the self-insured employer; (iii) The
 security held pursuant to this section may be used for the payment of 
any and all fees or costs required to administer the disbursement of the
 proceeds to or for the benefit of the employees; (iv) The venue for any suit filed by the commissioner of commerce and insurance under this provision shall be in Davidson County. (v) (a) Any
 security held for purposes of compliance with this section shall be 
held for a minimum of ten (10) years after the self-insured employer is 
no longer self-insured and the self-insured employer shall maintain the 
fair market value of security on deposit at not less than five hundred 
thousand dollars ($500,000), unless otherwise approved by the 
commissioner of commerce and insurance or the commissioner's designee; (b) Any
 employer that is no longer self-insured pursuant to this section as of 
December 31, 2004, shall not be subject to subdivision (b)(2)(A)(v)(a). (vi) All
 security, and contracts evidencing the security, filed with the 
commissioner of commerce and insurance shall be in a form substantively 
that has been previously approved by the commissioner of commerce and 
insurance. Any security that fails to meet any requirement under this 
section shall not be considered for purposes of determining a 
self-insurer's compliance with any of the security maintenance 
requirements of this section; (vii) As
 used in this subdivision (b)(2)(A), "qualified United States financial 
institution" shall have the meaning assigned by Â§ 56-2-209(a); (viii) The
 commissioner of commerce and insurance may by rule establish 
requirements for securities posted pursuant to this subsection (b). 
These rules may also prescribe the various types and classes of 
securities that the commissioner of commerce and insurance will accept 
under this subsection (b); (B) (i) Evidence
 of the employer's financial ability to pay all claims that may arise 
against the employer in the form of an annual certified financial 
statement, including a statement of assets and liabilities and a 
statement of profit and loss, to be filed no later than the last day of 
the sixth month after the end of the employer's immediately preceding 
fiscal year; (ii) The 
financial statement is to include a detailed accounting for reserves for
 losses outstanding incurred in connection with workers' compensation 
self-insurance. The employer's losses and adequacy of reserves shall be 
certified annually by an actuary qualified under rules established by 
the commissioner of commerce and insurance for the filing of statements 
by insurance companies. (3) 
Filings pursuant to this subsection (b) shall be kept confidential by 
the commissioner of commerce and insurance and shall not be construed to
 be a public record pursuant to title 10, chapter 7. (4) The
 commissioner of commerce and insurance may assess a civil penalty of 
one hundred dollars ($100) per day for each day any self-insured 
employer has failed to comply with any financial record filing 
requirement. The civil penalty assessed under this subdivision (b)(4) 
shall be cumulative and in addition to any other civil penalty or remedy
 available to the commissioner. No civil penalty shall be assessed 
against any political subdivision of the state. (5) The
 commissioner of commerce and insurance shall take into account all 
available information when making the determination as to both the 
adequacy of all security deposits, letters of credit, negotiable 
securities or bonds held by the commissioner and whether an employer has
 the ability to pay all claims that may arise. (6) No
 employer shall self-insure its workers' compensation liabilities 
without a certificate of authority issued by the commissioner of 
commerce and insurance. It shall be unlawful for any employer to 
self-insure its liabilities for workers' compensation without first 
obtaining a duly issued certificate of authority from the commissioner 
of commerce and insurance. Whenever an employer has complied with 
subdivisions (a)(2) and (b)(2)(A) and (B), the commissioner of commerce 
and insurance, or the commissioner's designee, may issue to the employer
 a certificate of authority allowing the employer to self-insure under 
this section. Notice of this authorization shall be sent to the 
administrator of the division of workers' compensation. (7) Upon
 failure by an authorized self-insured employer to furnish the 
commissioner of commerce and insurance the requirements delineated in 
subdivisions (a)(2) and (b)(2)(A) and (B), the commissioner may, after 
giving written notice and an opportunity for a hearing to the affected 
party or parties within thirty (30) days, suspend or revoke the 
certificate authorizing the employer to self-insure granted under this 
section. The commissioner may, without prior notice and if it appears in
 the commissioner's discretion that the continuation of the certificate 
would be clearly hazardous to the employees of the self-insurer or to 
the public generally, summarily suspend an authorized self-insurer's 
certificate before a hearing is commenced and in that event shall 
immediately notify the self-insurer, and the notice shall include a 
statement to the effect that the commissioner's action is subject to 
review. All hearings conducted under this section shall comply with the 
contested case provisions of the Uniform Administrative Procedures Act, 
compiled in title 4, chapter 5. (8) Any
 hearing under this section shall be requested in writing by the 
self-insured employer within fifteen (15) days of receiving written 
notification from the commissioner of commerce and insurance or the 
commissioner's designee. In any proceeding in which the self-insured 
employer's certificate of authority is suspended or revoked, the 
self-insured employer shall pay all costs associated with the 
proceeding. The commissioner may serve a notice, order, petition or 
complaint in any action arising under this section by certified mail to 
the self-insured employer at the address of record in the files of the 
department. Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, service in the 
manner set forth in this subdivision (b)(8), shall be deemed to 
constitute actual service on the self-insured employer. (9) The
 commissioner of commerce and insurance or the commissioner's designee 
shall immediately notify the administrator of the division of workers' 
compensation of any decision to suspend or revoke a certificate 
authorizing an employer to self-insure. (10) The
 commissioner of commerce and insurance or the commissioner's designee 
has the authority to examine and investigate any self-insured employer 
whenever the commissioner deems it prudent to do so. The purposes and 
scope of the examinations and the commissioner's powers shall be set 
forth in title 56, chapter 1, part 4, pertaining to examinations of 
insurance companies. (11) The 
commissioner of commerce and insurance may promulgate rules and 
regulations, including emergency rules and regulations, necessary for 
the administration of this section and shall conduct all rulemaking in 
accordance with the Uniform Administrative Procedures Act.(c) (1) With
 the permission of a trade or professional association board of 
directors, ten (10) or more employers of the same group may enter into 
agreements to pool their liabilities under this chapter for the purpose 
of qualifying as self-insurers. The trade or professional association 
shall have been in active existence in Tennessee for at least five (5) 
years and the association shall: (A) Have a constitution or bylaws; (B) Have members that support the association by regular payment of dues on an annual, semiannual, quarterly or monthly basis; and (C) Be
 created in good faith for purposes other than that of creating workers'
 compensation self-insurer pools. The commissioner of commerce and 
insurance has the authority to promulgate rules and regulations deemed 
necessary to provide for the solvency, administration and enforcement of
 the pooling agreements. To the extent deemed necessary by the 
commissioner of commerce and insurance, each employer member of the 
approved group shall be classified as a self-insurer as otherwise 
provided in this chapter. (2) Notwithstanding
 any other law or rule to the contrary, funds not needed for current 
obligations may be invested by the board of trustees in Tennessee 
securities as defined in Â§ 56-4-210(a). The board of trustees of each 
workers' compensation pool shall adopt an investment policy. The policy 
shall address credit, quality of investments, maximum maturity of 
investments and other matters the board deems appropriate. Real estate 
investments must be undertaken with the approval of the commissioner of 
commerce and insurance. (3) (A) Each
 group of employers qualifying as self-insurers pursuant to this 
subsection (c) shall submit to the commissioner of commerce and 
insurance a statement of financial condition audited by an independent 
certified public accountant on or before the last day of the sixth month
 following the end of the group's fiscal year. A thirty-day extension of
 the financial statement filing requirement shall be granted by the 
commissioner upon receipt of a request, via certified mail, by a group. 
The request shall be submitted to the commissioner not less than thirty 
(30) days prior to the date the financial statement is due to be filed. (B) Notwithstanding
 subdivision (c)(3)(A), a qualified self-insured trust that has entered 
into a self-insurance loss portfolio transfer agreement approved by the 
commissioner of commerce and insurance with an insurer licensed in this 
state pursuant to which all of the liabilities and obligations pooled by
 the group of employers of the self-insured trust for their workers' 
compensation and employers' liability losses, including all existing and
 incurred but not reported claims, is not required to annually submit a 
statement of financial condition audited by an independent certified 
public accountant; provided, that the commissioner of commerce and 
insurance has granted a request filed by the self-insured trust for 
exemption from the annual submission of an audited statement of 
financial condition. (4) (A) At
 the request of a group of employers qualifying as self-insurers 
pursuant to this subsection (c), the commissioner of commerce and 
insurance, in the commissioner's sole discretion, may grant additional 
thirty-day extensions to the financial statement filing requirements for
 acts of God, public enemies, fire, flood, storms or similar events 
constituting force majeure that cause the group to require more time to 
meet the filing requirements. (B) The
 commissioner of commerce and insurance, after notice and an opportunity
 for a hearing, may revoke the certificate of approval of a group of 
employers qualifying as self-insurers pursuant to this subsection (c) if
 the group fails to comply with this subsection (c) or any rules 
promulgated under this subsection (c). In addition to or in lieu of 
revoking a certificate of approval, the commissioner may assess a civil 
penalty of one hundred dollars ($100) per day for failure to timely meet
 the filing requirements set forth in this subsection (c). All hearings 
under this subsection (c) shall be conducted pursuant to the Uniform 
Administrative Procedures Act. (C) Financial
 statements filed pursuant to this subsection (c), individual member 
financial statements, work papers, notes, internal documents generated 
by the department of commerce and insurance or any other information 
obtained by or disclosed to the commissioner of commerce and insurance 
pursuant to this chapter or any regulations promulgated under this 
chapter, shall be confidential and shall not be disclosed to the public.
 This provision, however, shall not apply to the examination report 
prepared by the commissioner of commerce and insurance, nor to any 
rebuttal to the examination reports submitted by or on behalf of the 
group examined. However, nothing contained in this subdivision (c)(4)(C)
 shall be construed as prohibiting the commissioner of commerce and 
insurance from disclosing the information listed in this subdivision 
(c)(4)(C), or any matters relating to that information, to state 
agencies of this or any other state, or to law enforcement officials of 
this or any other state or agency of the federal government at any time. (D) Upon
 receipt of a request from any approved authorized agent of a group of 
employers qualifying as self-insurers pursuant to this subsection (c), 
the group shall provide a copy of the annual statement of financial 
condition. The agent, however, shall not further disseminate the 
information except for purposes of obtaining errors and omission 
insurance or in the exercise of due diligence of the agent on behalf of 
the agent's client seeking admission to the group. Further, any 
individual or entity obtaining a copy of the statement shall hold the 
information confidential and shall not share or disclose the information
 to any other individual or entity. (5) All
 groups pooling their liabilities pursuant to this subsection (c) shall 
pay premium tax and surcharges at the rates set forth in Â§ 56-4-206. 
Each group's premium tax and surcharge payments shall be due on or 
before the last day of the sixth month following the end of the group's 
fiscal year. Any group failing to timely pay the taxes and surcharges 
shall be subject to the penalties and sanctions set forth in Â§ 56-4-216. (6) The
 sponsoring trade association may determine whether or not the pool 
shall remain in existence, subject to the approval of the commissioner. (7) The
 pool shall provide to the sponsoring trade association all information 
requested by the association, other than a member's financial 
information. (8) The sponsoring association shall not be liable or responsible for any act or omission of the pool. (9) The
 commissioner of commerce and insurance has the authority to promulgate 
rules and regulations that would provide for civil penalties for 
violations of this subsection (c) or rules promulgated under this 
subsection (c).(d) (1) It is an offense for any employer whose employee is entitled to the benefits of this chapter: (A) To require such employee to pay any portion of the insurance premium paid by the employer; or (B) To deduct any portion of such premium from the wages or salary of such employee. (2) A violation of subdivision (d)(1) is a Class C misdemeanor. (3) (A) In
 addition to any criminal penalty assessed for a violation of 
subdivision (d)(1), the administrator of the division of workers' 
compensation is authorized to impose a civil penalty of up to an amount 
equal to the amount of premiums deducted from such employee's wages or 
salary. (B) If a civil penalty
 is assessed pursuant to subdivision (d)(3)(A), the administrator of the
 division of workers' compensation shall assess the penalty in a 
specific dollar amount to be paid directly to the employee.(e) If
 at any time the commissioner of commerce and insurance deems the 
security or bond inadequate or unsafe, the commissioner shall require 
adequate bond or security.(f) The commissioner of commerce and insurance may require the employer to secure excess catastrophe reinsurance coverage.(g) This
 part shall not apply to policies of insurance against loss from 
explosions of boilers or flywheels or other similar single catastrophe 
hazards.(h) The commissioner of 
commerce and insurance may issue rules, regulations and orders necessary
 to properly administer the deposits, bonds and financial evidence as 
required in this part.(i) It is the
 duty of the commissioner of commerce and insurance and the 
administrator of the division of workers' compensation to interchange 
information as to matters of mutual interest under this chapter.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 41; impl. am. Acts 1923, ch. 7, Â§ 2, 50; Shan. 
Supp., Â§ 3608a191; mod. Code 1932, Â§ 6895; Acts 1941, ch. 90, Â§ 11; mod.
 C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6895; impl. am. Acts 1971, ch. 137, Â§ 1; Acts 1973, 
ch. 379, Â§ 11; 1978, ch. 759, Â§ 1; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; 
Acts 1980, ch. 457, Â§ 1, 2; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1205; Acts 1985, 
ch. 381, Â§ 1; 1989, ch. 591, Â§ 113; 1993, ch. 224, Â§ 1; 1995, ch. 142, Â§
 1; 1997, ch. 533, Â§ 50; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2000, ch. 852, Â§ 15; 2002,
 ch. 544, Â§ 1, 2; 2003, ch. 359, Â§ 7-9, 13; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 34-37, 
47; 2005, ch. 390, Â§ 9-12; 2006, ch. 954, Â§ 1, 2; 2008, ch. 841, Â§ 1; 
2009, ch. 217, Â§ 1; 2009, ch. 373, Â§ 1, 2; 2009, ch. 566, Â§ 12; 2010, 
ch. 1149, Â§ 7; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-405.  Compensation insurance or proof of financial ability required -- Self insurers -- Payment of premiums -- Excess catastrophe reinsurance coverage -- Authority and duty of commissioner.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 




Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-405. Compensation insurance or proof of financial ability 
required -- Self insurers -- Payment of premiums -- Excess catastrophe 
reinsurance coverage -- Authority and duty of commissioner. [Applicable
 to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) Every employer under and affected by this chapter, shall: (1) Insure
 and keep insured the employer's liability under this chapter in some 
person or persons, association, organization or corporation authorized 
to transact the business of workers' compensation insurance in this 
state; or (2) Possess a valid 
certificate of authority from the commissioner of commerce and insurance
 by furnishing satisfactory proof of the employer's financial ability to
 pay all claims that may arise against the employer under this chapter 
and guarantee the payment of the claims in the amount and manner and 
when due as provided for in this chapter.(b) If
 the employer elects to proceed under subdivision (a)(2), the 
commissioner of commerce and insurance shall require the applicant to 
pay a nonrefundable application fee of five hundred dollars ($500) or in
 an amount the commissioner shall promulgate by rule. The commissioner 
of commerce and insurance shall require the applicant to file and 
maintain with the department of commerce and insurance the following: (1) Security,
 in an amount to be determined by the commissioner of commerce and 
insurance, but not less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000), 
in any of the following forms, as specified herein: negotiable 
securities; a surety bond; a certificate of deposit; or a letter of 
credit. (A) The security, or a
 contract between the self-insured employer, a depository institution 
and the commissioner of commerce and insurance evidencing the security 
held in the depository institution for purposes of compliance with this 
section, shall be held by the commissioner of commerce and insurance and
 shall be conditioned to run solely and directly for the benefit of the 
employees of the self-insured employer. Any legal actions to enforce the
 payment of the security being held for purposes of compliance with this
 section shall be brought by the commissioner of commerce and insurance 
for the benefit of the employees of the self-insured employer. (B) The
 security held pursuant to this section may be used for the payment of 
any and all fees or costs required to administer the disbursement of the
 proceeds to or for the benefit of the employees. (C) The venue for any suit filed by the commissioner of commerce and insurance under this provision shall be in Davidson County. (D) [Deleted by 2009 amendment.] (E) [Deleted by 2009 amendment.] (F) [Deleted by 2009 amendment.] (G) [Deleted by 2009 amendment.] (H) [Deleted by 2009 amendment.] (I) (i) Any
 security held for purposes of compliance with this section shall be 
held for a minimum of ten (10) years after the self-insured employer is 
no longer self-insured and the self-insured employer shall maintain the 
fair market value of security on deposit at not less than five hundred 
thousand dollars ($500,000), unless otherwise approved by the 
commissioner of commerce and insurance or the commissioner's designee. (ii) Any
 employer that is no longer self-insured pursuant to this section as of 
December 31, 2004, shall not be subject to subdivision (b)(1)(I). (J) All
 security, and contracts evidencing the security, filed with the 
commissioner of commerce and insurance shall be in a form substantively 
that has been previously approved by the commissioner of commerce and 
insurance. Any security that fails to meet any requirement under this 
section shall not be considered for purposes of determining a 
self-insurer's compliance with any of the security maintenance 
requirements of this section; (K) As
 used in this subdivision (b)(1), "qualified United States financial 
institution" shall have the meaning assigned by Â§ 56-2-209(a). (L) The
 commissioner of commerce and insurance may by rule establish 
requirements for securities posted pursuant to this subsection (b). 
These rules may also prescribe the various types and classes of 
securities that the commissioner of commerce and insurance will accept 
under this subsection (b). (2) Evidence
 of the employer's financial ability to pay all claims that may arise 
against the employer in the form of an annual certified financial 
statement, including a statement of assets and liabilities and a 
statement of profit and loss, to be filed no later than the last day of 
the sixth month after the end of the employer's immediately preceding 
fiscal year. The financial statement is to include a detailed accounting
 for reserves for losses outstanding incurred in connection with 
workers' compensation self-insurance. The employer's losses and adequacy
 of reserves shall be certified annually by an actuary qualified under 
rules established by the commissioner of commerce and insurance for the 
filing of statements by insurance companies. Filings pursuant to this 
subsection (b) shall be kept confidential by the commissioner of 
commerce and insurance and shall not be construed to be a public record 
pursuant to title 10, chapter 7; (A) The
 commissioner of commerce and insurance may assess a civil penalty of 
one hundred dollars ($100) per day for each day any self-insured 
employer has failed to comply with any financial record filing 
requirement. The civil penalty assessed under this subdivision (b)(2)(A)
 shall be cumulative and in addition to any other civil penalty or 
remedy available to the commissioner. No civil penalty shall be assessed
 against any political subdivision of the state. (B) The
 commissioner of commerce and insurance shall take into account all 
available information when making the determination as to both the 
adequacy of all security deposits, letters of credit, negotiable 
securities or bonds held by the commissioner and whether an employer has
 the ability to pay all claims that may arise. (3) No
 employer shall self-insure its workers' compensation liabilities 
without a certificate of authority issued by the commissioner of 
commerce and insurance. It shall be unlawful for any employer to 
self-insure its liabilities for workers' compensation without first 
obtaining a duly issued certificate of authority from the commissioner 
of commerce and insurance. Whenever an employer has complied with 
subdivisions (a)(2), (b)(1) and (b)(2), the commissioner of commerce and
 insurance, or the commissioner's designee, may issue to the employer a 
certificate of authority allowing the employer to self-insure under this
 section. Notice of this authorization shall be sent to the 
administrator of the division of workers' compensation. (4) Upon
 failure by an authorized self-insured employer to furnish the 
commissioner of commerce and insurance the requirements delineated in 
subdivisions (a)(2), (b)(1) and (b)(2), the commissioner may, after 
giving written notice and an opportunity for a hearing to the affected 
party or parties within thirty (30) days, suspend or revoke the 
certificate authorizing the employer to self-insure granted under this 
section. The commissioner may, without prior notice and if it appears in
 the commissioner's discretion that the continuation of the certificate 
would be clearly hazardous to the employees of the self-insurer or to 
the public generally, summarily suspend an authorized self-insurer's 
certificate before a hearing is commenced and in that event shall 
immediately notify the self-insurer, and the notice shall include a 
statement to the effect that the commissioner's action is subject to 
review. All hearings conducted under this section shall comply with the 
contested case provisions of the Uniform Administrative Procedures Act, 
compiled in title 4, chapter 5. (5) Any
 hearing under this section shall be requested in writing by the 
self-insured employer within fifteen (15) days of receiving written 
notification from the commissioner of commerce and insurance or the 
commissioner's designee. In any proceeding in which the self-insured 
employer's certificate of authority is suspended or revoked, the 
self-insured employer shall pay all costs associated with the 
proceeding. The commissioner may serve a notice, order, petition or 
complaint in any action arising under this section by certified mail to 
the self-insured employer at the address of record in the files of the 
department. Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, service in the 
manner set forth in this subdivision (b)(5), shall be deemed to 
constitute actual service on the self-insured employer. (6) The
 commissioner of commerce and insurance or the commissioner's designee 
shall immediately notify the administrator of the division of workers' 
compensation of any decision to suspend or revoke a certificate 
authorizing an employer to self-insure. (7) The
 commissioner of commerce and insurance or the commissioner's designee 
has the authority to examine and investigate any self-insured employer 
whenever the commissioner deems it prudent to do so. The purposes and 
scope of the examinations and the commissioner's powers shall be set 
forth in title 56, chapter 1, part 4, pertaining to examinations of 
insurance companies. (8) The 
commissioner of commerce and insurance may promulgate rules and 
regulations, including emergency rules and regulations, necessary for 
the administration of this section and shall conduct all rulemaking in 
accordance with the Uniform Administrative Procedures Act, compiled in 
title 4, chapter 5.(c) (1) With
 the permission of a trade or professional association board of 
directors, ten (10) or more employers of the same group may enter into 
agreements to pool their liabilities under this chapter for the purpose 
of qualifying as self-insurers. The trade or professional association 
shall have been in active existence in Tennessee for at least five (5) 
years and the association shall: (A) Have a constitution or bylaws; (B) Have members that support the association by regular payment of dues on an annual, semiannual, quarterly or monthly basis; and (C) Be
 created in good faith for purposes other than that of creating workers'
 compensation self-insurer pools. The commissioner of commerce and 
insurance has the authority to promulgate rules and regulations deemed 
necessary to provide for the solvency, administration and enforcement of
 the pooling agreements. To the extent deemed necessary by the 
commissioner of commerce and insurance, each employer member of the 
approved group shall be classified as a self-insurer as otherwise 
provided in this chapter. (2) Notwithstanding
 any other law or rule to the contrary, funds not needed for current 
obligations may be invested by the board of trustees in Tennessee 
securities as defined in Â§ 56-4-210(a). The board of trustees of each 
workers' compensation pool shall adopt an investment policy. The policy 
shall address credit, quality of investments, maximum maturity of 
investments and other matters the board deems appropriate. Real estate 
investments must be undertaken with the approval of the commissioner of 
commerce and insurance. (3) (A) Each
 group of employers qualifying as self-insurers pursuant to this 
subsection (c) shall submit to the commissioner of commerce and 
insurance a statement of financial condition audited by an independent 
certified public accountant on or before the last day of the sixth month
 following the end of the group's fiscal year. A thirty-day extension of
 the financial statement filing requirement shall be granted by the 
commissioner upon receipt of a request, via certified mail, by a group. 
The request shall be submitted to the commissioner not less than thirty 
(30) days prior to the date the financial statement is due to be filed. (B) Notwithstanding
 subdivision (c)(3)(A), a qualified self-insured trust that has entered 
into a self-insurance loss portfolio transfer agreement approved by the 
commissioner of commerce and insurance with an insurer licensed in this 
state pursuant to which all of the liabilities and obligations pooled by
 the group of employers of the self-insured trust for their workers' 
compensation and employers' liability losses, including all existing and
 incurred but not reported claims, is not required to annually submit a 
statement of financial condition audited by an independent certified 
public accountant; provided, that the commissioner of commerce and 
insurance has granted a request filed by the self-insured trust for 
exemption from the annual submission of an audited statement of 
financial condition. (4) (A) At
 the request of a group of employers qualifying as self-insurers 
pursuant to this subsection (c), the commissioner of commerce and 
insurance, in the commissioner's sole discretion, may grant additional 
thirty-day extensions to the financial statement filing requirements for
 acts of God, public enemies, fire, flood, storms or similar events 
constituting force majeure that cause the group to require more time to 
meet the filing requirements; (B) The
 commissioner of commerce and insurance, after notice and an opportunity
 for a hearing, may revoke the certificate of approval of a group of 
employers qualifying as self-insurers pursuant to this subsection (c) if
 the group fails to comply with this subsection (c) or any rules 
promulgated under this subsection (c). In addition to or in lieu of 
revoking a certificate of approval, the commissioner may assess a civil 
penalty of one hundred dollars ($100) per day for failure to timely meet
 the filing requirements set forth in this subsection (c). All hearings 
under this subsection (c) shall be conducted pursuant to the Uniform 
Administrative Procedures Act, compiled in title 4, chapter 5; (C) Financial
 statements filed pursuant to this subsection (c), individual member 
financial statements, work papers, notes, internal documents generated 
by the department of commerce and insurance or any other information 
obtained by or disclosed to the commissioner of commerce and insurance 
pursuant to this chapter or any regulations promulgated under this 
chapter, shall be confidential and shall not be disclosed to the public.
 This provision, however, shall not apply to the examination report 
prepared by the commissioner of commerce and insurance, nor to any 
rebuttal to the examination reports submitted by or on behalf of the 
group examined. However, nothing contained in this subdivision (c)(4)(C)
 shall be construed as prohibiting the commissioner of commerce and 
insurance from disclosing the information listed in this subdivision 
(c)(4)(C), or any matters relating to that information, to state 
agencies of this or any other state, or to law enforcement officials of 
this or any other state or agency of the federal government at any time; (D) Upon
 receipt of a request from any approved authorized agent of a group of 
employers qualifying as self-insurers pursuant to this subsection (c), 
the group shall provide a copy of the annual statement of financial 
condition. The agent, however, shall not further disseminate the 
information except for purposes of obtaining errors and omission 
insurance or in the exercise of due diligence of the agent on behalf of 
the agent's client seeking admission to the group. Further, any 
individual or entity obtaining a copy of the statement shall hold the 
information confidential and shall not share or disclose the information
 to any other individual or entity. (5) All
 groups pooling their liabilities pursuant to this subsection (c) shall 
pay premium tax and surcharges at the rates set forth in Â§ 56-4-206. 
Each group's premium tax and surcharge payments shall be due on or 
before the last day of the sixth month following the end of the group's 
fiscal year. Any group failing to timely pay the taxes and surcharges 
shall be subject to the penalties and sanctions set forth in Â§ 56-4-216. (6) The
 sponsoring trade association may determine whether or not the pool 
shall remain in existence, subject to the approval of the commissioner. (7) The
 pool shall provide to the sponsoring trade association all information 
requested by the association, other than a member's financial 
information. (8) The sponsoring association shall not be liable or responsible for any act or omission of the pool. (9) The
 commissioner of commerce and insurance has the authority to promulgate 
rules and regulations that would provide for civil penalties for 
violations of this subsection (c) or rules promulgated under this 
subsection (c).(d) (1) It is an offense for any employer whose employee is entitled to the benefits of this chapter: (A) To require such employee to pay any portion of the insurance premium paid by the employer; or (B) To deduct any portion of such premium from the wages or salary of such employee. (2) A violation of subdivision (d)(1) is a Class C misdemeanor. (3) (A) In
 addition to any criminal penalty assessed for a violation of 
subdivision (d)(1), the administrator of the division of workers' 
compensation is authorized to impose a civil penalty of up to an amount 
equal to the amount of premiums deducted from such employee's wages or 
salary. (B) If a civil penalty
 is assessed pursuant to subdivision (d)(3)(A), the administrator of the
 division of workers' compensation shall assess the penalty in a 
specific dollar amount to be paid directly to the employee.(e) If
 at any time the commissioner of commerce and insurance deems the 
security or bond inadequate or unsafe, the commissioner shall require 
adequate bond or security.(f) The commissioner of commerce and insurance may require the employer to secure excess catastrophe reinsurance coverage.(g) This
 part shall not apply to policies of insurance against loss from 
explosions of boilers or flywheels or other similar single catastrophe 
hazards.(h) The commissioner of 
commerce and insurance may issue rules, regulations and orders necessary
 to properly administer the deposits, bonds and financial evidence as 
required in this part.(i) It is the
 duty of the commissioner of commerce and insurance and the 
administrator of the division of workers' compensation to interchange 
information as to matters of mutual interest under this chapter.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 41; impl. am. Acts 1923, ch. 7, Â§ 2, 50; Shan. 
Supp., Â§ 3608a191; mod. Code 1932, Â§ 6895; Acts 1941, ch. 90, Â§ 11; mod.
 C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 6895; impl. am. Acts 1971, ch. 137, Â§ 1; Acts 1973, 
ch. 379, Â§ 11; 1978, ch. 759, Â§ 1; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; 
Acts 1980, ch. 457, Â§ 1, 2; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1205; Acts 1985, 
ch. 381, Â§ 1; 1989, ch. 591, Â§ 113; 1993, ch. 224, Â§ 1; 1995, ch. 142, Â§
 1; 1997, ch. 533, Â§ 50; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2000, ch. 852, Â§ 15; 2002,
 ch. 544, Â§ 1, 2; 2003, ch. 359, Â§ 7-9, 13; 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 34-37, 
47; 2005, ch. 390, Â§ 9-12; 2006, ch. 954, Â§ 1, 2; 2008, ch. 841, Â§ 1; 
2009, ch. 217, Â§ 1; 2009, ch. 373, Â§ 1, 2; 2009, ch. 566, Â§ 12; 2010, 
ch. 1149, Â§ 7; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1.  







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-406.  Evidence of compliance to be filed -- Penalty for failing to comply -- Liability to employee in damages -- Defenses.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-406. Evidence
 of compliance to be filed -- Penalty for failing to comply -- Liability
 to employee in damages -- Defenses. [Applicable to injuries occurring 
on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) Every
 employer, or the employer's insurance carrier unless the employer is 
self-insured, subject to this chapter, shall file evidence of its 
compliance with Â§ 50-6-405 with the division of workers' compensation on
 a form prescribed by the administrator, within thirty (30) days after 
procurement or renewal of suitable workers' compensation insurance or 
qualification as a self-insurer.(b) If
 an employer fails to comply with Â§ 50-6-405, then during the 
continuance of the failure, the employer shall be liable to an injured 
employee either for compensation as provided in this chapter to be 
recovered in an action brought in a court of competent jurisdiction for 
that purpose, or for damages to be recovered as if this chapter had not 
been enacted, as the employee may elect; and in the case suit for 
damages is brought instead of a suit to recover compensation under this 
chapter, the employer, when sued, shall not be allowed to set up as a 
defense to the action that the employee was negligent, or that the 
injury was caused by negligence of a fellow servant or fellow employee, 
or that the employee had assumed the risk of the injury.(c) Claim
 of compensation made under this chapter shall be deemed a waiver of the
 right to sue for damages, and the institution and prosecution to final 
judgment of a suit for damages shall be deemed a waiver of a right to 
claim compensation under this chapter.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 42; impl. am. Acts 1923, ch. 7, Â§ 2, 50; Shan. 
Supp., Â§ 3608a192; mod. Code 1932, Â§ 6896; Acts 1973, ch. 379, Â§ 12; 
1978, ch. 759, Â§ 2; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. 
ed.), Â§ 50-1206; Acts 1989, ch. 591, Â§ 113; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2000, 
ch. 852, Â§ 16; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-406.  Evidence of compliance to be filed -- Penalty for failing to comply -- Liability to employee in damages -- Defenses.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-406. Evidence
 of compliance to be filed -- Penalty for failing to comply -- Liability
 to employee in damages -- Defenses. [Applicable to injuries occurring 
prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) Every
 employer, or the employer's insurance carrier unless the employer is 
self-insured, subject to this chapter, shall file evidence of its 
compliance with Â§ 50-6-405 with the division of workers' compensation on
 a form prescribed by the commissioner, within thirty (30) days after 
procurement or renewal of suitable workers' compensation insurance or 
qualification as a self-insurer.(b) If
 an employer fails to comply with Â§ 50-6-405, then during the 
continuance of the failure, the employer shall be liable to an injured 
employee either for compensation as provided in this chapter to be 
recovered in an action brought in a court of competent jurisdiction for 
that purpose, or for damages to be recovered as if this chapter had not 
been enacted, as the employee may elect; and in the case suit for 
damages is brought instead of a suit to recover compensation under this 
chapter, the employer, when sued, shall not be allowed to set up as a 
defense to the action that the employee was negligent, or that the 
injury was caused by negligence of a fellow servant or fellow employee, 
or that the employee had assumed the risk of the injury.(c) Claim
 of compensation made under this chapter shall be deemed a waiver of the
 right to sue for damages, and the institution and prosecution to final 
judgment of a suit for damages shall be deemed a waiver of a right to 
claim compensation under this chapter.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 42; impl. am. Acts 1923, ch. 7, Â§ 2, 50; Shan. 
Supp., Â§ 3608a192; mod. Code 1932, Â§ 6896; Acts 1973, ch. 379, Â§ 12; 
1978, ch. 759, Â§ 2; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. 
ed.), Â§ 50-1206; Acts 1989, ch. 591, Â§ 113; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2000, 
ch. 852, Â§ 16.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-407.  Certificate of compliance with insurance provisions.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-407. Certificate of compliance with insurance provisions. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] Every
 individual, firm, association, or corporation using the services of one
 (1) or more persons for pay shall post and maintain in a conspicuous 
place on the business premises a printed notice regarding workers' 
compensation as prescribed by the administrator of the division of 
workers' compensation. The notice shall include, at a minimum, a general
 description of the duties and obligations of both the employer and the 
employee under the law; the name, address and telephone number of the 
individual to notify in the event of a work-related injury; a toll-free 
number and address for the department of labor and workforce development
 at which employers or employees may obtain additional information; and 
the name, address and telephone number of a representative of the 
employer who can confirm whether the individual, firm, association, or 
corporation is subject to this chapter; and other information required 
through rules promulgated by the administrator of the division of 
workers' compensation.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 43; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a193; Code 1932, Â§ 6897; 
Acts 1978, ch. 759, Â§ 3; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1207; Acts 1990, ch. 
795, Â§ 1-3; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2002, ch. 695, Â§ 7; 2003, ch. 359, Â§ 
10; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-407.  Certificate of compliance with insurance provisions.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 












Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-407. Certificate of compliance with insurance provisions. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] Every
 individual, firm, association, or corporation using the services of one
 (1) or more persons for pay shall post and maintain in a conspicuous 
place on the business premises a printed notice regarding workers' 
compensation as prescribed by the commissioner of labor and workforce 
development. The notice shall include, at a minimum, a general 
description of the duties and obligations of both the employer and the 
employee under the law; the name, address and telephone number of the 
individual to notify in the event of a work-related injury; a toll-free 
number and address for the department of labor and workforce development
 at which employers or employees may obtain additional information; and 
the name, address and telephone number of a representative of the 
employer who can confirm whether the individual, firm, association, or 
corporation is subject to this chapter; and other information required 
through rules promulgated by the commissioner of labor and workforce 
development.HISTORY: Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 43; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a193; Code 1932, Â§ 6897; 
Acts 1978, ch. 759, Â§ 3; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1207; Acts 1990, ch. 
795, Â§ 1-3; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2002, ch. 695, Â§ 7; 2003, ch. 359, Â§ 
10.







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-408.  Mandatory policy provisions.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-408. Mandatory policy provisions. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]  All policies insuring the payment of compensation under the Workers' Compensation Law, compiled in this chapter, including all contracts of mutual, reciprocal, or interinsurance, must contain a clause to the effect that:   (1) As between the employer and the insurer or insurers, the notice of or knowledge of the occurrence of the injury on the part of the insured employer shall be deemed notice or knowledge, as the case may be, on the part of the insurer or insurers;   (2) Jurisdiction of the insured for the purpose of this chapter shall be jurisdiction of the insurer or insurers; and   (3) The insurer or insurers shall in all things be bound by and subject to the awards, orders, judgments or decrees rendered against such insured employer, whether a formal party to the proceedings or not.   [Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 44; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a194; Code 1932, Â§ 6898; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1208.] 


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-409.  Policy provision concerning agreement to pay benefits.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-409. Policy provision concerning agreement to pay benefits. 
 [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 
1, 2014.]  (a) No policy of insurance against liability arising under the Workers' Compensation Law, compiled in this chapter, shall be issued unless it contains an express agreement of the insurer that it will promptly pay to the person entitled to them all benefits conferred by this chapter and all installments of the compensation that may be awarded or agreed upon, and that this obligation shall not be affected by any default of the insured for the injury or by any default in the giving of any notice required by such policy or otherwise.   (b) Such agreement shall be construed to be a direct promise by the insurer to the person entitled to compensation under the Workers' Compensation Law, compiled in this chapter, and may be enforced directly by that person in that person's name, and the failure, if any, of the insured to comply with any provisions of the policy regarding notice of injury, and such matters shall not be a defense in a suit on the policy by the insured employee or such insured employee's dependents or representatives, unless it can be shown that such insured employee or such insured employee's representatives or dependents aided and abetted in seeking to mislead or defraud the insurer.    [Acts 1919, ch. 123, Â§ 45; Shan. Supp., Â§ 3608a195; Code 1932, Â§ 6899; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1209.]  


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-410.  Violations of § 50-6-405.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 




 50-6-410. Violations of Â§ 50-6-405. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] The grand jury of every county in the state is given inquisitorial power over all violations of Â§ 50-6-405 relating to employers insuring their compensation liability under this chapter, and is required to inquire into all such violations and to present them to the court by indictment or presentment.

HISTORY: Acts 1933, ch. 71, Â§ 1, 2; mod. C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 11583.1, 11583.2; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 50-1210, 50-1211; Acts 1989, ch. 591, Â§ 113; 2000, ch. 852, Â§ 12, 13.

	







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-411.  Misclassification of employees by construction service providers. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-411. Misclassification
 of employees by construction service providers. [Applicable to injuries
 occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) It
 is a violation of this section if at any time a construction services 
provider, as defined in Â§ 50-6-901, misclassifies employees to avoid 
proper classification for premium calculations by concealing any 
information pertinent to the computation and application of an 
experience rating modification factor or by materially understating or 
concealing: (A) The amount of the construction services provider's payroll; (B) The number of the construction services provider's employees; or (C) Any of the construction services provider's employee's duties. (2) A
 construction services provider who violates subdivision (a)(1) shall be
 subject to a penalty issued by the administrator or administrator's 
designee of up to the greater of one thousand dollars ($1,000) or one 
and one half (11/2) times the average yearly workers' compensation 
premium for such construction services provider based on the appropriate
 assigned risk plan advisory prospective loss cost and multiplier minus 
the premium dollars paid on the policy that was the object of the 
understatement or concealment.(b) This
 section shall have no effect upon a construction services provider's or
 carrier's duty to provide benefits under this chapter or upon any of 
the construction services provider's or carrier's rights and defenses 
under this chapter, including, but not limited to, Â§ 50-6-108.(c) In
 addition to the penalties provided for in subdivision (a)(2), the 
department shall refer cases involving business operations that are in 
violation of this section to the Tennessee bureau of investigation or 
the appropriate district attorney general for any action deemed 
necessary under any applicable criminal law.(d) An
 individual or entity that is not a successor-in-interest or a principal
 of a construction services provider who is in violation of this section
 shall not be liable for the monetary penalties in this section.(e) The
 funds collected by the administrator or the administrator's designee 
for penalties assessed pursuant to subdivision (a)(2) shall be deposited
 in the employee misclassification education and enforcement fund 
established by Â§ 50-6-913 to be administered by the administrator.HISTORY: Acts 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1; 2013, ch. 424, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-411.  Misclassification of employees by construction service providers. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 




Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-411. Misclassification
 of employees by construction service providers. [Applicable to injuries
 occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) It
 is a violation of this section if at any time a construction services 
provider, as defined in Â§ 50-6-901, misclassifies employees to avoid 
proper classification for premium calculations by concealing any 
information pertinent to the computation and application of an 
experience rating modification factor or by materially understating or 
concealing: (A) The amount of the construction services provider's payroll; (B) The number of the construction services provider's employees; or (C) Any of the construction services provider's employee's duties. (2) A
 construction services provider who violates subdivision (a)(1) shall be
 subject to a penalty issued by the commissioner or commissioner's 
designee of up to the greater of one thousand dollars ($1,000) or one 
and one half (11/2) times the average yearly workers' compensation 
premium for such construction services provider based on the appropriate
 assigned risk plan advisory prospective loss cost and multiplier minus 
the premium dollars paid on the policy that was the object of the 
understatement or concealment.(b) This
 section shall have no effect upon a construction services provider's or
 carrier's duty to provide benefits under this chapter or upon any of 
the construction services provider's or carrier's rights and defenses 
under this chapter, including, but not limited to, Â§ 50-6-108.(c) In
 addition to the penalties provided for in subdivision (a)(2), the 
department shall refer cases involving business operations that are in 
violation of this section to the Tennessee bureau of investigation or 
the appropriate district attorney general for any action deemed 
necessary under any applicable criminal law.(d) An
 individual or entity that is not a successor-in-interest or a principal
 of a construction services provider who is in violation of this section
 shall not be liable for the monetary penalties in this section.(e) The
 funds collected by the commissioner of labor and workforce development 
or the commissioner's designee for penalties assessed pursuant to 
subdivision (a)(2) shall be deposited in the employee misclassification 
education and enforcement fund established by Â§ 50-6-913 to be 
administered by the commissioner of labor and workforce development.HISTORY: Acts 2013, ch. 424, Â§ 1. 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-412.  Penalties for noncompliance with insurance requirements.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-412. Penalties for noncompliance with insurance requirements. 
 [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 
1, 2014.] (a) The 
administrator of the division of workers' compensation or the 
administrator's designee has the authority to issue a subpoena to 
require an employer doing business in the state to produce any and all 
books, documents or other tangible things that may be relevant to or 
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of relevant information 
necessary to determine whether an employer is subject to this chapter, 
or has secured payment of compensation pursuant to this chapter, and to 
determine the amount of any monetary penalty that is required to be 
assessed against an employer for failure to secure payment of 
compensation pursuant to this chapter.(b) (1) All
 monetary penalties assessed pursuant to this section that are based on 
the average yearly workers' compensation premium shall be calculated by 
utilizing the appropriate assigned risk plan advisory prospective loss 
cost and multiplier for the employer as of the date of determination 
that the employer is subject to this chapter, and has not secured 
payment of compensation pursuant to this chapter. (2) If
 the administrator or administrator's designee determines the period of 
noncompliance with this chapter, is less than one (1) year, any assessed
 monetary penalty shall be prorated; however, the monetary penalty shall
 not be less than an amount equal to one (1) month's premium of the 
average yearly workers' compensation premium for the employer based on 
the appropriate assigned risk plan advisory prospective loss cost and 
multiplier. (3) If any monetary 
penalty assessed against an employer is held in abeyance pursuant to 
this section, the period of abeyance shall be two (2) years. Any abated 
penalty becomes void upon the expiration of the two-year period; 
provided, that the employer remained subject to this chapter, during the
 two-year period and continuously secured payment of compensation as 
required by law. Any abated penalty becomes voidable, if within the 
two-year period, the employer provides notice to the administrator that 
the employer is no longer subject to this chapter and upon concurrence 
of the administrator that the employer is no longer subject to this 
chapter, the penalty shall become void. Any abated penalty shall become 
due and payable immediately if, within the two-year period, the employer
 continues to be subject to this chapter and fails to secure payment of 
compensation as required by law. (4) The
 administrator shall advise an employer of the amount of any assessed 
monetary penalty in writing and shall include the date on which the 
monetary penalty shall be due and payable.(c) (1) When
 the records of the division of workers' compensation indicate, or when 
the division's investigation of an employer indicates, that an employer 
is subject to this chapter, and has failed to secure payment of 
compensation as required by this chapter, the division shall so notify 
the employer by certified letter, return receipt requested. (2) The
 division shall require the employer to provide, within fifteen (15) 
calendar days of the receipt of the certified letter, either proof that 
the employer had secured payment of compensation as required by this 
chapter or a verifiable sworn affidavit, with supporting documentation, 
that the employer is exempt from this chapter. (3) The
 certified letter shall also advise the employer of the monetary 
penalties that may be assessed against the employer if it is determined 
by the administrator or the administrator's designee that the employer 
has failed to secure payment of compensation as required by this chapter
 and shall advise the employer of the criminal penalties to which the 
employer may be subject for the failure.(d) (1) If
 the employer responds to the certified letter within fifteen (15) 
calendar days of its receipt and the administrator or the 
administrator's designee determines that the employer has secured 
payment of compensation as required by this chapter, or that the 
employer is not subject to this chapter, no monetary penalty shall be 
assessed. (2) If the employer 
responds to the certified letter within fifteen (15) calendar days of 
its receipt and the administrator or the administrator's designee 
determines that the employer is subject to this chapter and that the 
employer has secured the payment of compensation since the date of 
receipt of the certified letter, the administrator or the 
administrator's designee shall issue a decision assessing a monetary 
penalty to the employer equal to one and one-half (1 1/2) times the 
average yearly workers' compensation premium, or if the employer is 
engaged in the construction industry, as defined in Â§ 50-6-901, the 
greater of one thousand dollars ($1,000) or one and one-half (1 1/2) 
times the average yearly workers' compensation premium.(e) (1) If
 the employer fails to respond to the certified letter within fifteen 
(15) calendar days of its receipt or the employer responds to the 
certified letter but does not provide a verifiable sworn affidavit of 
exemption, the administrator or the administrator's designee shall issue
 a decision assessing two (2) penalties. The administrator or 
administrator's designee shall send the decision to the employer by 
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the employer's last known 
address, according to the division's records. (A)  The
 first monetary penalty shall be equal to one and one-half (1 1/2) times
 the average yearly workers' compensation premium, or if the employer is
 engaged in the construction industry, as defined in Â§ 50-6- 901, the 
greater of one thousand dollars ($1 ,000) or one and one half (1 1/2) 
times the average yearly workers' compensation premium. (B)  The second monetary penalty shall be equal to the average yearly workers' compensation premium for such employer. (2) The
 administrator's or administrator's designee's decision shall notify the
 employer of all monetary penalties that have been assessed against the 
employer and the criminal penalties to which the employer may be 
subject. (3) The administrator's 
or administrator's designee's decision shall advise the employer that it
 may request a contested case hearing to show cause why it should not 
have been assessed penalties for failure to comply with the workers' 
compensation law or to challenge the amount of the penalties assessed. 
Such a request must be made to the division in writing within fifteen 
(15) calendar days of receipt of the administrator's or administrator's 
designee's decision assessing monetary penalties. If such request is not
 timely made, the decision becomes final. (4) The
 employer has the burden of proof at the contested case hearing and 
shall produce documentary evidence that the penalties should be reduced,
 that the employer is not subject to this chapter, or that the employer 
was in compliance with this chapter. (5) The
 contested case hearing shall be scheduled to be heard in a timely 
manner, not to exceed forty-five (45) calendar days from the date of the
 employer's timely written request for a contested case hearing pursuant
 to subdivision (e)(3).(f) (1) If
 the administrator or the administrator's designee determines at the 
contested case hearing that the employer is not subject to this chapter,
 or that the employer had secured and continues to secure payment of 
compensation as required by this chapter, all monetary penalties shall 
be void. (2) If the administrator
 or the administrator's designee determines at the contested case 
hearing that the employer is subject to this chapter and that the 
employer has come into compliance with this chapter by securing payment 
of compensation prior to the date of the contested case hearing, the 
first monetary penalty equal to one and one-half (1 1/2) times the 
average yearly workers' compensation premium, or if the employer is 
engaged in the construction industry, as defined in Â§ 50-6-901, the 
greater of one thousand dollars ($1 ,000) or one and one-half (1 1/2) 
times the average yearly workers' compensation premium shall be due; 
however, the second monetary penalty equal to the average yearly 
workers' compensation premium shall be held in abeyance. (3) If
 the administrator or the administrator's designee determines at the 
contested case hearing that the employer is subject to this chapter and 
that the employer has failed to secure payment of compensation as 
required by this chapter, the employer shall be ordered to procure 
workers' compensation insurance coverage and to provide the division 
with proof of coverage within five (5) days of the issuance of the 
order, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. If the employer 
obtains workers' compensation insurance coverage and provides the 
division with proof of coverage as ordered, the first monetary penalty 
equal to one and one-half (1 1/2) times the average yearly workers' 
compensation premium, or if the employer is engaged in the construction 
industry, as defined in Â§ 50-6-901, the greater of one thousand dollars 
($1 ,000) or one and one-half (1 1/2) times the average yearly workers' 
compensation premium shall be due; however, the second monetary penalty 
equal to the average yearly workers' compensation premium shall be held 
in abeyance. (4) If the employer 
fails to obtain workers' compensation insurance coverage as ordered by 
the administrator or administrator's designee within the required time 
period, all monetary penalties, totaling two and one-half (2 1/2) times 
the average yearly workers' compensation premium, or if the employer is 
engaged in the construction industry, as defined in Â§ 50-6-901, the 
greater of two thousand dollars ($2,000) or two and one-half (2 1/2) 
times the average yearly workers' compensation premium, shall be 
immediately due and payable.(g) The administrator shall notify the secretary of state: (1) When
 any employer engaged in the construction industry, as defined in Â§ 
50-6-901, fails to secure payment of compensation, as required by this 
chapter; and (2) When any 
employer engaged in the construction industry, as defined in Â§ 50-6-901,
 who has failed to secure payment of compensation, as required by this 
chapter, has secured payment of such compensation.(h) (1) In
 the event an employer engaged in the construction industry, as defined 
in Â§ 50-6-901, fails to comply with the requirements of this chapter, by
 failing to secure payment two (2) or more times within a five-year 
period, then the administrator shall issue a monetary penalty against 
the employer that is the greater of three thousand dollars ($3,000) or 
three (3) times the average yearly workers' compensation premium for 
each second or subsequent violation. (2) (A) In
 the event an employer engaged in the construction industry, as defined 
in Â§ 50-6-901, fails to comply with the requirements of this chapter, by
 failing to secure payment two (2) or more times within a five-year 
period, such employer shall be permanently prohibited from obtaining an 
exemption pursuant to part 9 of this chapter and the administrator shall
 notify the secretary of state of such prohibition. (B) For
 purposes of subdivision (h)(2)(A), "such employer" includes any 
construction services provider, as defined by Â§ 50-6-901, who applies 
for or has ever received a workers' compensation exemption pursuant to 
part 9 of this chapter using the same federal employer identification 
number as the employer who fails to comply with the requirements of this
 chapter.(i) (1) The 
administrator has the authority to seek an injunction in the chancery 
court of Davidson County to prohibit an employer from operating its 
business in any way until the employer has complied with an order by the
 administrator or the administrator's designee to obtain workers' 
compensation insurance coverage. (2) In
 the event an employer fails to comply with the requirements of this 
chapter, by failing to secure payment of compensation on a second or 
subsequent occasion, the administrator shall have the authority to seek 
an injunction in the chancery court of Davidson County to prohibit the 
employer from operating its business in any way until the employer 
provides proof that it has complied with this chapter by securing 
payment of compensation.(j) The 
employer shall have the right to appeal, pursuant to the Uniform 
Administrative Procedures Act, compiled at title 4, chapter 5, any 
decision made by or order issued by the administrator or the 
administrator's designee pursuant to this section.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 23; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2000, ch. 972, Â§ 4; 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 8-12; 2014, ch. 903, Â§ 8.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-413.  In-state claims office or adjuster required -- Authority of office or adjuster.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-413. In-state claims office or adjuster required -- Authority 
of office or adjuster. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to 
and on and after July 1, 2014.]  Every workers' compensation insurer that provides insurance for Tennessee workers' compensation claims, and every workers' compensation division-approved self-insured employer, shall be required to maintain a workers' compensation claims office or to contract with a claims adjuster located within the borders of the state of Tennessee. Such claims office or adjuster has authority to commence temporary total disability benefits and medical benefits if so ordered by the claims coordinator or by a court at a show cause hearing.   [Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 27.]      


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance---> 50-6-414.  Experience modification factors -- Notification of employers -- Failure to give timely notification.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-414. Experience modification factors -- 
Notification of employers -- Failure to give timely notification. 
 [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 
1, 2014.]  (a) Any employer who is assigned an experience modification factor for the purpose of determining its workers' compensation premium shall be sent annually, at no charge to the employer, a copy of any information relative to its experience modification factor that is available to an insurance company.  (b) If the experience modification factor notification is not received by the employer prior to the policy renewal date, or the policy anniversary date if different, the experience modification factor shall not be used for premium purposes if its use results in a higher premium for the employer. The mailing of the experience modification factor worksheet shall be sufficient proof of notice, provided such mailing is by certified mail, return receipt requested.    [Acts 1993, ch. 370, Â§ 1; 2000, ch. 852, Â§ 6.]      


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-415.  Data collection -- Reporting data.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-415. Data collection -- Reporting data. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) The
 administrator of the division of workers' compensation has the same 
authority as the commissioner of commerce and insurance to request and 
obtain relevant information on workers' compensation claims. All 
workers' compensation insurers or their designated agents, self insurers
 and the department of commerce and insurance shall report claims 
information and other relevant workers' compensation data necessary to 
determine and analyze costs of the system to the administrator of the 
division of workers' compensation or to the agents as the administrator 
may designate. The administrator may promulgate all reasonable rules and
 regulations necessary to implement this section in accordance with the 
Uniform Administrative Procedures Act, compiled in title 4, chapter 5. (2) In
 promulgating rules concerning data collection, the administrator of the
 division of workers' compensation shall include appropriate elements of
 the Detailed Claim Information Reporting Model Regulation for Workers' 
Compensation Insurance issued by the National Association of Insurance 
Commissioners, and other information the administrator deems necessary. 
The administrator shall also consult with the advisory council on 
workers' compensation in defining the information needed to permit 
management of the system. The administrator shall also report to the 
commerce and labor committee of the senate and the consumer and human 
resources committee of the house of representatives at the request of 
the chairs of the committees.(b) The
 division of workers' compensation shall gather, and has the duty to 
analyze and report, information relevant to the functioning of the 
workers' compensation system to the advisory council on workers' 
compensation, the general assembly and the governor. The division shall 
respond to information requests concerning workers' compensation issues 
from the advisory council on workers' compensation, the general assembly
 and the governor.(c) The 
administrator of the workers' compensation division shall enforce 
requests pursuant to this section in the same manner and with the same 
authority as the commissioner of commerce and insurance possesses with 
respect to violations of this part and title 56. The administrator shall
 also notify the principal corporate office of any insurer of any 
refusal to comply with such requests. The administrator's enforcement 
authority under this subsection (c) applies only to the administrator's 
efforts to obtain relevant data as provided in subsections (a) and (b).HISTORY: Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 24; 1998, ch. 1024, Â§ 4; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 
2011, ch. 410, Â§ 10(e); 2013, ch. 236, Â§ 31; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-415.  Data collection -- Reporting data.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 




Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-415. Data collection -- Reporting data. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) The
 commissioner of labor and workforce development has the same authority 
as the commissioner of commerce and insurance to request and obtain 
relevant information on workers' compensation claims. All workers' 
compensation insurers or their designated agents, self insurers and the 
department of commerce and insurance shall report claims information and
 other relevant workers' compensation data necessary to determine and 
analyze costs of the system to the commissioner of labor and workforce 
development or to the agents as the commissioner may designate. The 
commissioner may promulgate all reasonable rules and regulations 
necessary to implement this section in accordance with the Uniform 
Administrative Procedures Act, compiled in title 4, chapter 5. (2) In
 promulgating rules concerning data collection, the commissioner of 
labor and workforce development shall include appropriate elements of 
the Detailed Claim Information Reporting Model Regulation for Workers' 
Compensation Insurance issued by the National Association of Insurance 
Commissioners, and other information the commissioner deems necessary. 
The commissioner shall also consult with the advisory council on 
workers' compensation in defining the information needed to permit 
management of the system. The commissioner shall also report to the 
commerce and labor committee of the senate and the consumer and human 
resources committee of the house of representatives at the request of 
the chairs of the committees.(b) The
 division of workers' compensation shall gather, and has the duty to 
analyze and report, information relevant to the functioning of the 
workers' compensation system to the advisory council on workers' 
compensation, the general assembly and the governor. The division shall 
respond to information requests concerning workers' compensation issues 
from the advisory council on workers' compensation, the general assembly
 and the governor.(c) The 
commissioner of labor and workforce development shall enforce requests 
pursuant to this section in the same manner and with the same authority 
as the commissioner of commerce and insurance possesses with respect to 
violations of this part and title 56. The commissioner shall also notify
 the principal corporate office of any insurer of any refusal to comply 
with such requests. The commissioner's enforcement authority under this 
subsection (c) applies only to the commissioner's efforts to obtain 
relevant data as provided in subsections (a) and (b).HISTORY: Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 24; 1998, ch. 1024, Â§ 4; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2011, ch. 410, Â§ 10(e); 2013, ch. 236, Â§ 31. 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance---> 50-6-416.  [Repealed.]
===================================================================



 




50-6-416. [Repealed.] 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-417.  Dispute of experience modification factor.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.
===================================================================



 








 50-6-417. Dispute of experience modification factor. [Applicable to
 injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.  In cases where an employer disputes an experience modification factor assigned to the employer, the insurer shall notify the employer of the employer's right to submit a request for review and to appeal to the commissioner of commerce and insurance pursuant to Â§ 56-5-309(b).   [Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 27.]  


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-418.  Rating plans based on drug-free workplace program participation.   [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-418. Rating
 plans based on drug-free workplace program participation. [Applicable
 to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) The
 department of commerce and insurance shall approve rating plans for 
workers' compensation insurance that give specific identifiable 
consideration in the setting of rates to employers that implement a 
drug-free workplace program pursuant to rules adopted by the division of
 workers' compensation of the department of labor and workforce 
development. The plans must take effect January 1, 1997, must be 
actuarially sound, and must state the savings anticipated to result from
 the drug testing. The credit shall be at least five percent (5%) unless
 the commissioner of commerce and insurance determines that five percent
 (5%) is actuarially unsound. (2) The
 commissioner is also authorized to develop a schedule of premium 
credits for workers' compensation insurance for employers who have 
safety programs that attain certain criteria for safety programs. The 
commissioner shall consult with the administrator of the division of 
workers' compensation in setting the criteria.(b) The
 department of commerce and insurance shall apply the drug-free 
workplace program credit separately to each individual company for an 
employer having more than one (1) company under one (1) workers' 
compensation insurance policy. However, no credit given to an individual
 company may be combined with any credit given to any other company of 
the common employer or to the common employer itself.HISTORY: Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 51; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2005, ch. 390, Â§ 14; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-418.  Rating plans based on drug-free workplace program participation.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 




Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-418. Rating
 plans based on drug-free workplace program participation. [Applicable 
to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) The
 department of commerce and insurance shall approve rating plans for 
workers' compensation insurance that give specific identifiable 
consideration in the setting of rates to employers that implement a 
drug-free workplace program pursuant to rules adopted by the division of
 workers' compensation of the department of labor and workforce 
development. The plans must take effect January 1, 1997, must be 
actuarially sound, and must state the savings anticipated to result from
 the drug testing. The credit shall be at least five percent (5%) unless
 the commissioner of commerce and insurance determines that five percent
 (5%) is actuarially unsound. (2) The
 commissioner is also authorized to develop a schedule of premium 
credits for workers' compensation insurance for employers who have 
safety programs that attain certain criteria for safety programs. The 
commissioner shall consult with the commissioner of labor and workforce 
development in setting the criteria.(b) The
 department of commerce and insurance shall apply the drug-free 
workplace program credit separately to each individual company for an 
employer having more than one (1) company under one (1) workers' 
compensation insurance policy. However, no credit given to an individual
 company may be combined with any credit given to any other company of 
the common employer or to the common employer itself.HISTORY: Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 51; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2005, ch. 390, Â§ 14.







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-419.  Rules governing settlement of workers' compensation claims.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-419. Rules
 governing settlement of workers' compensation claims. [Applicable to 
injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) Notwithstanding
 any other provision of this part or of title 56 to the contrary, in 
order to assure that injured employees are treated fairly and to assure 
that claims are handled in an appropriate and uniform manner, the 
administrator of the division of workers' compensation shall set 
standards by rule governing the adjustment and settlement of workers' 
compensation claims by insurance carriers and self-insured employers. 
The standards may include, but are not limited to, standards governing 
contact with an employee after notice of injury has been given, the 
processing of claims and procedures for making an offer of settlement.(b) The
 administrator shall promulgate rules and regulations to effectuate the 
purposes of this section. The rules and regulations shall be promulgated
 in accordance with the Uniform Administrative Procedures Act, compiled 
in title 4, chapter 5.(c) The 
administrator of the division of workers' compensation shall enforce 
standards adopted pursuant to this section in the same manner and with 
the same authority as the commissioner of commerce and insurance 
possesses with respect to violations of this part and title 56. The 
administrator shall also notify the principal corporate office of any 
insurer of any violations of the standards.HISTORY: Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 53; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-419.  Rules governing settlement of workers' compensation claims.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 




Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-419. Rules
 governing settlement of workers' compensation claims. [Applicable to 
injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) Notwithstanding
 any other provision of this part or of title 56 to the contrary, in 
order to assure that injured employees are treated fairly and to assure 
that claims are handled in an appropriate and uniform manner, the 
commissioner of labor and workforce development shall set standards by 
rule governing the adjustment and settlement of workers' compensation 
claims by insurance carriers and self-insured employers. The standards 
may include, but are not limited to, standards governing contact with an
 employee after notice of injury has been given, the processing of 
claims and procedures for making an offer of settlement.(b) The
 commissioner shall promulgate rules and regulations to effectuate the 
purposes of this section. The rules and regulations shall be promulgated
 in accordance with the Uniform Administrative Procedures Act, compiled 
in title 4, chapter 5.(c) The 
commissioner of labor and workforce development shall enforce standards 
adopted pursuant to this section in the same manner and with the same 
authority as the commissioner of commerce and insurance possesses with 
respect to violations of this part and title 56. The commissioner shall 
also notify the principal corporate office of any insurer of any 
violations of the standards.HISTORY: Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 53; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41.







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-420.  Legislative intent.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-420. Legislative intent. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] It
 is the intent of the general assembly that upon the filing of a claim 
pursuant to this chapter, the insurer is encouraged to provide 
semi-annual reports to the employer, at no cost to the employer, 
regarding the status of the claim.HISTORY: Acts 2004, ch. 962, Â§ 44.     


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-421.  Requesting and obtaining information on employer workers' compensation insurance policies to ensure compliance with law -- Confidentiality -- What constitutes public record. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-421. Requesting
 and obtaining information on employer workers' compensation insurance 
policies to ensure compliance with law -- Confidentiality -- What 
constitutes public record. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and 
after July 1, 2014.] (a) The 
administrator of the division of workers' compensation may request and 
obtain information regarding employer workers' compensation insurance 
policies in order to ensure compliance with the law. Except as otherwise
 provided in subsection (b), any information relating to workers' 
compensation insurance policies obtained by the administrator pursuant 
to this subsection (a) shall be deemed confidential and shall not 
constitute a public record, as defined in Â§ 10-7-503; provided, such 
information may be used by any state agency, or vendor designated by the
 state, for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law.(b) The
 following information obtained by the administrator pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall constitute a public record, as defined in Â§ 
10-7-503, and shall be open for personal inspection by any citizen of 
this state: (1) Employer name and business address; (2) Workers' compensation insurance carrier name and business address; and (3) Workers' compensation insurance policy number, policy effective date and policy expiration date.HISTORY: Acts 2013, ch. 50, Â§ 1; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 4. Insurance--->50-6-421.  Requesting and obtaining information on employer workers' compensation insurance policies to ensure compliance with law -- Confidentiality -- What constitutes public record. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-421. Requesting
 and obtaining information on employer workers' compensation insurance 
policies to ensure compliance with law -- Confidentiality -- What 
constitutes public record. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to 
July 1, 2014.] (a) The 
commissioner of labor and workforce development may request and obtain 
information regarding employer workers' compensation insurance policies 
in order to ensure compliance with the law. Except as otherwise provided
 in subsection (b), any information relating to workers' compensation 
insurance policies obtained by the commissioner pursuant to this 
subsection (a) shall be deemed confidential and shall not constitute a 
public record, as defined in Â§ 10-7-503; provided, such information may 
be used by any state agency, or vendor designated by the state, for the 
purpose of ensuring compliance with the law.(b) The
 following information obtained by the commissioner pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall constitute a public record, as defined in Â§ 
10-7-503, and shall be open for personal inspection by any citizen of 
this state: (1) Employer name and business address; (2) Workers' compensation insurance carrier name and business address; and (3) Workers' compensation insurance policy number, policy effective date and policy expiration date.HISTORY: Acts 2013, ch. 50, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 5. Safe Employment Practices--->50-6-501.  Establishment of safety committees -- Reporting by insurance companies -- Civil penalty.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-501. Establishment
 of safety committees -- Reporting by insurance companies -- Civil 
penalty. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) In
 order to promote health and safety in places of employment in this 
state, every public or private employer that is subject to this chapter,
 shall establish and administer a safety committee in accordance with 
rules adopted pursuant to Â§ 50-6-502, if the administrator of the 
workers' compensation division finds that the employer has an experience
 modification factor or rate applied to the premium greater than or 
equal to one and twenty hundredths (1.20).(b) In
 making determinations under subsection (a), the administrator of the 
workers' compensation division shall utilize the most recent statistics 
regarding experience modification rates.(c) (1) Every
 insurance company authorized to write workers' compensation insurance 
shall submit its modification factors or rates for each of its workers' 
compensation insureds to the commissioner of commerce and insurance, 
when requested by the commissioner. On request from the administrator of
 the workers' compensation division, the commissioner of commerce and 
insurance shall provide the division of workers' compensation with the 
information. (2) The 
administrator of the workers' compensation division shall establish 
safety committee requirements for self-insured employers pursuant to 
rules promulgated in accordance with the Uniform Administrative 
Procedures Act, compiled in title 4, chapter 5. (3) The
 commissioner of commerce and insurance may assess a civil penalty of up
 to two thousand dollars ($2,000) per incident for failure to comply 
with subdivision (c)(1).HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 5; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2005, ch. 390, Â§ 13; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1.    




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 5. Safe Employment Practices--->50-6-501.  Establishment of safety committees -- Reporting by insurance companies -- Civil penalty.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.
===================================================================



 




Second of 2 versions of this section 50-6-501. Establishment
 of safety committees -- Reporting by insurance companies -- Civil 
penalty. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) In
 order to promote health and safety in places of employment in this 
state, every public or private employer that is subject to this chapter,
 shall establish and administer a safety committee in accordance with 
rules adopted pursuant to Â§ 50-6-502, if the commissioner of labor and 
workforce development finds that the employer has an experience 
modification factor or rate applied to the premium greater than or equal
 to one and twenty hundredths (1.20).(b) In
 making determinations under subsection (a), the commissioner of labor 
and workforce development shall utilize the most recent statistics 
regarding experience modification rates.(c) (1) Every
 insurance company authorized to write workers' compensation insurance 
shall submit its modification factors or rates for each of its workers' 
compensation insureds to the commissioner of commerce and insurance, 
when requested by the commissioner. On request from the commissioner of 
labor and workforce development, the commissioner of commerce and 
insurance shall provide the department of labor and workforce 
development with the information. (2) The
 commissioner of labor and workforce development shall establish safety 
committee requirements for self-insured employers pursuant to rules 
promulgated in accordance with the Uniform Administrative Procedures 
Act, compiled in title 4, chapter 5. (3) The
 commissioner of commerce and insurance may assess a civil penalty of up
 to two thousand dollars ($2,000) per incident for failure to comply 
with subdivision (c)(1).HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 5; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2005, ch. 390, Â§ 13. 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 5. Safe Employment Practices--->50-6-502.  Rules governing committees -- Duties of committees -- Training -- Operation under collective bargaining agreement.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-502. Rules
 governing committees -- Duties of committees -- Training -- Operation 
under collective bargaining agreement. [Applicable to injuries 
occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) In
 carrying out Â§ 50-6-501, the administrator of the workers' compensation
 division shall promulgate rules that include, but are not limited to, 
provisions: (1) Prescribing the 
membership of the committees to ensure equal numbers of hourly employees
 and employer representatives as well as specifying the frequency of 
meetings; (2) Requiring employers
 to make adequate written records of each meeting and to maintain the 
records subject to inspection by Tennessee occupational safety and 
health administration representatives; and (3) Requiring
 employers to compensate employee representatives on safety committees 
at the regular hourly wage while the employees are engaged in safety 
committee training or are attending safety committee meetings.(b) The duties and functions of the safety committee shall include, but are not limited to: (1) Assisting in establishing procedures for workplace safety inspections by the committee; (2) Assisting in establishing procedures for investigating all safety incidents, accidents, illnesses and deaths; and (3) Assisting in evaluating accident and illness prevention programs.(c) The
 employer shall provide training for safety committee members in their 
duties and responsibilities provided in subsection (b).(d) An
 employer operating under a collective bargaining agreement that 
contains provisions regulating the formation and operation of a safety 
committee that meets or exceeds the minimum requirements of this section
 and Â§ 50-6-501 may apply to the administrator of the workers' 
compensation division for a determination that the employer meets the 
requirements of this section and Â§ 50-6-501.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 5; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 5. Safe Employment Practices--->50-6-502.  Rules governing committees -- Duties of committees -- Training -- Operation under collective bargaining agreement.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-502. Rules
 governing committees -- Duties of committees -- Training -- Operation 
under collective bargaining agreement. [Applicable to injuries 
occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) In
 carrying out Â§ 50-6-501, the commissioner of labor and workforce 
development shall promulgate rules that include, but are not limited to,
 provisions: (1) Prescribing the 
membership of the committees to ensure equal numbers of hourly employees
 and employer representatives as well as specifying the frequency of 
meetings; (2) Requiring employers
 to make adequate written records of each meeting and to maintain the 
records subject to inspection by Tennessee occupational safety and 
health administration representatives; and (3) Requiring
 employers to compensate employee representatives on safety committees 
at the regular hourly wage while the employees are engaged in safety 
committee training or are attending safety committee meetings.(b) The duties and functions of the safety committee shall include, but are not limited to: (1) Assisting in establishing procedures for workplace safety inspections by the committee; (2) Assisting in establishing procedures for investigating all safety incidents, accidents, illnesses and deaths; and (3) Assisting in evaluating accident and illness prevention programs.(c) The
 employer shall provide training for safety committee members in their 
duties and responsibilities provided in subsection (b).(d) An
 employer operating under a collective bargaining agreement that 
contains provisions regulating the formation and operation of a safety 
committee that meets or exceeds the minimum requirements of this section
 and Â§ 50-6-501 may apply to the commissioner of labor and workforce 
development for a determination that the employer meets the requirements
 of this section and Â§ 50-6-501.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 5; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 5. Safe Employment Practices---> 50-6-503.  [Repealed.]
===================================================================



 




50-6-503. [Repealed.] 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 5. Safe Employment Practices--->50-6-504.  [Repealed.]
===================================================================



 




50-6-504. [Repealed.] 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 5. Safe Employment Practices---> 50-6-505.  Civil liability of labor organization.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








  50-6-505. Civil liability of labor organization. [Applicable to 
injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] When
 an employee incurs an injury compensable under this chapter, the 
discussion or furnishing, or failure to discuss or furnish, or failure 
to enforce any safety or health provision, shall not subject a labor 
organization representing the injured employee to any civil liability 
for the injury.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 5. 


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992--->50-6-601.  Short title -- Establishment of competitive state workers' compensation insurance fund.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-601. Short title -- Establishment of competitive state workers'
 compensation insurance fund. [Applicable to injuries occurring both 
prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) This part shall be known and may be cited as the "Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992." (b) (1) There shall be established a competitive state workers' compensation insurance fund to insure employers under this chapter. (2) This
 fund shall operate as a nonprofit insurance company and is subject to 
all requirements of law and regulation as any other insurer offering 
workers' compensation insurance in Tennessee pursuant to title 56 and 
this chapter. (3) This fund shall act in addition to, and not as a substitute for, an assigned risk pool. (4) The
 fund shall be required to maintain an adequate rate and any assessment 
for accumulated liabilities shall be made only against those insured 
within the state workers' compensation insurance fund. No assessments 
shall be made against or for the Tennessee Guaranty Association, as 
described in title 56, chapter 12, and no assessment shall be made 
against a private insurer or any entity authorized under Â§ 50-6-405(c), 
not participating in the state workers' compensation insurance fund. The
 policies written by the fund shall be assessable against the 
policyholders.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 26; 1994, ch. 979, Â§ 2.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992--->50-6-602.  Part definitions.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-602. Part definitions. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] As used in this part, unless the context otherwise requires: (1) "Board" means the board of directors of the competitive state compensation insurance fund; (2) "Fund" means the competitive state compensation insurance fund; and (3) "Personal injury" or "injury" has the meaning given to it in Â§ 50-6-102.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 26; 1994, ch. 979, Â§ 3.     


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992--->50-6-603.  Purpose and organization of fund.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








   50-6-603. Purpose and organization of fund. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] The
 fund shall be created as a nonprofit independent public corporation for
 the purpose of insuring employers against liability for personal 
injuries for which their employees may be entitled to benefits under 
this part. The fund shall be organized as a domestic insurance company.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 26.      


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992---> 50-6-604.  Board of directors -- Members.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-604. Board of directors -- Members. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) In
 the event the commissioner of commerce and insurance elects to make the
 fund operational pursuant to Â§ 56-5-314, the existing board of 
directors shall terminate and a new board shall be appointed within 
sixty (60) days of the election.(b) The
 board of directors shall initially consist of seven (7) members who are
 knowledgeable concerning the workers' compensation system. The state 
treasurer shall be an ex officio member. Initially, the speakers of the 
senate and the house of representatives and the governor shall each 
appoint one (1) member for a two-year term and one (1) member for a 
three-year term. Each director shall hold office until a successor is 
appointed and qualifies. The board shall annually elect a chair from 
among its members and other officers it deems necessary for the 
performance of its duties.(c) (1) Once
 the fund is operational and the commissioner of commerce and insurance 
certifies it as a fund able to effectively operate under this part and 
title 56, then on the next scheduled expiration of board members' terms: (A) The members shall be elected by policyholders; and (B) The state treasurer shall, on expiration of the treasurer's term, cease to be a member of the board. (2) The successor board shall consist of seven (7) members selected by policyholders for three-year terms.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 26; 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 28.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992--->50-6-605.  Management of fund.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-605. Management of fund. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] The management and control of the fund is vested solely in the board.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 26. 


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992--->50-6-606.  Powers of board.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-606. Powers of board. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) The board is vested with full power, authority, and jurisdiction over the fund. (2) The
 board may perform all acts necessary or convenient in the exercise of 
any power, authority, or jurisdiction over the fund, either in the 
administration of the fund or in connection with the insurance business 
to be carried on by it under this part, as fully and completely as the 
governing body of a private insurance carrier to fulfill the objectives 
and intent of this part.(b) The board may invest assets as permitted by Â§ 56-3-402.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 26.      


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992--->50-6-607.  [Repealed.]
===================================================================



 




 50-6-607. [Repealed.]







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992--->50-6-608.  Nonliability of board members, officers or employees.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-608. Nonliability of board members, officers or employees. 
 [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 
1, 2014.] The members of the board 
and officers or employees of the fund shall not be liable personally, 
either jointly or severally, for any debt or obligation created or 
incurred by the fund.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 26.      


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992--->50-6-609.  Scope of insurance by fund.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-609. Scope of insurance by fund. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] The
 fund shall insure an employer against any workers' compensation claim 
arising primarily out of and in the course and scope of employment as 
fully as any other insurer.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 26; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 9.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992--->50-6-609.  Scope of insurance by fund.  [Effective on July 1, 2014. See the version effective until July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 




Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-609. Scope of insurance by fund. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] The
 fund shall insure an employer against any workers' compensation claim 
arising out of and in the course of employment as fully as any other 
insurer.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 26.







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992--->50-6-610.  Powers of fund.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-610. Powers of fund. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] For
 purposes of exercising the specific powers granted in this part and 
carrying out the other purposes of this part, the fund may: (1) Sue and be sued; (2) Have a seal and alter it at will; (3) Make, amend, and repeal rules relating to the conduct of the business of the fund; (4) Enter into contracts relating to the administration of the fund; (5) Rent,
 lease, buy, or sell property in its own name and may construct or 
repair buildings necessary to provide space for its operations; (6) Declare a dividend when there is an excess of assets over liabilities, and minimum surplus requirements; (7) Pay
 medical expenses, rehabilitation expenses, compensation due claimants 
of insured employers, pay salaries, and pay administrative and other 
expenses; (8) Hire personnel and set salaries and compensation; and (9) Perform
 all other functions and exercise all other powers of a domestic 
insurance company that are necessary, appropriate, or convenient to 
administer the fund.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 26.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992--->50-6-611.  [Repealed.]
===================================================================



 




 50-6-611. [Repealed.]







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992--->50-6-612.  [Repealed.]
===================================================================



 




 50-6-612. [Repealed.]







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992--->50-6-613.  [Repealed.]
===================================================================



 




 50-6-613. [Repealed.]







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992--->50-6-614.  [Repealed.]
===================================================================



 




 50-6-614. [Repealed.]







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992--->50-6-615.  Property of fund -- Fund employees.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-615. Property of fund -- Fund employees. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] All
 premiums and other money paid to the fund, all property and securities 
acquired through the use of money belonging to the fund, and all 
interest and dividends earned upon money belonging to the fund and 
deposited or invested by the fund are the sole property of the fund and 
shall be used exclusively for the operation and obligations of the fund.
 The money of the fund is not state property. The employees of the fund 
shall not be considered state employees.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 26.      


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992--->50-6-616.  Appropriations prohibited except as provided in § 50-6-621.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-616. Appropriations prohibited except as 
provided in Â§ 50-6-621. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to
 and on and after July 1, 2014.] The fund shall not receive any state appropriation at any time other than as provided by Â§ 50-6-621.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 26.          


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992--->50-6-617. Fund not a state agency.
===================================================================



 








 50-6-617. Fund not a state agency. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] The fund shall not be considered a state agency for any purpose.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 26.   


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992--->50-6-618.  Rules for sale of coverage by agents.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-618. Rules for sale of coverage by agents. [Applicable to 
injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] Private
 independent insurance agents licensed to sell workers' compensation 
insurance in this state may sell insurance coverage for the fund 
according to rules adopted by the board. The board shall, by rule, also 
establish a schedule of commissions that the fund will pay for the 
services of an agent.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 26.     


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992--->50-6-619.  Annual report required.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-619. Annual report required. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] The
 board shall submit an annual report to the governor and general 
assembly indicating the business done by the fund the previous year and 
containing a statement of the resources and liabilities of the fund.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 26; 1994, ch. 979, Â§ 5. 


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992--->50-6-620.  Contents of annual report.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-620. Contents of annual report. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] The
 board shall annually report to the general assembly, governor, and the 
director of the division of state audit the operations of the fund up to
 that date. The report shall include, but not be limited to: (1) The volume of premiums insured through the state fund and its share of the state workers' compensation insurance market; (2) The
 percent division of premium dollars among various types of benefit 
payments and administrative costs for policies and claims under the 
state fund; (3) The average rate of return enjoyed by the state fund on its invested assets; (4) Recommendations
 concerning desirable changes in the state fund to promote its prompt 
and efficient administration of policies and claims; (5) A recommendation to the general assembly and governor regarding the continued operation of the fund; (6) A full report concerning reserve practices including any actuarial analysis of the funds reserved; and (7) Any other information the director deems appropriate.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 26; 1994, ch. 979, Â§ 5.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992--->50-6-621.  Bonds, appropriation for start-up costs.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-621. Bonds, appropriation for start-up costs. [Applicable to 
injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] The
 state is authorized to issue bonds in accordance with law or 
appropriate funds in the general appropriations act to the competitive 
state compensation insurance fund for start-up costs to be repaid 
pursuant to terms set by authorizing legislation for issuance of the 
bonds or appropriated funds. The start-up costs may be utilized by the 
fund to meet the reserve and capitalization requirements of the 
department of commerce and insurance. The funds set aside for this 
purpose shall be considered an admitted asset for regulatory purposes. 
The time for the fund repaying the appropriations may be extended by the
 funding board.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 26; 1994, ch. 979, Â§ 1; 1995, ch. 448, Â§ 1.  


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992--->50-6-622.  Start-up of operations.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-622. Start-up of operations. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] The
 fund shall begin providing workers' compensation insurance coverage 
when the board determines that the fund is able to do so and all 
requirements under state law have been met. The fund shall not issue 
insurance policies to employers until the approval of the director of 
the division of state audit has been obtained.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 26; 1994, ch. 979, Â§ 6. 


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992--->50-6-623.  Submission and review of organizational and operating plans.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-623. Submission
 and review of organizational and operating plans. [Applicable to 
injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] Before
 the fund established by this part shall enter into any contract, except
 for consulting services, or issue any bonds, or incur any liability, 
the board of directors shall submit organizational and operating plans 
for the fund to a review committee for approval. The review committee 
shall consist of the administrator of the workers' compensation 
division, the commissioners of commerce and insurance, and finance and 
administration, the state treasurer, and the comptroller of the 
treasury. The review committee shall approve the operational and 
organizational plans if it determines the plans to be in accord with 
this part and to be fiscally sound and responsible. If the committee 
approves the plan, then the fund may become fully operational. If the 
committee does not approve the plan, then the committee shall make 
appropriate recommendations to the board of directors, governor, and the
 speakers of the senate and house of representatives concerning any 
deficiencies.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 26; 1994, ch. 979, Â§ 7; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2013, ch. 282 Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 6. Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund Act of 1992--->50-6-623.  Submission and review of organizational and operating plans.  [Effective on July 1, 2014. See the version effective until July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 




Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-623. Submission
 and review of organizational and operating plans. [Applicable to 
injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] Before
 the fund established by this part shall enter into any contract, except
 for consulting services, or issue any bonds, or incur any liability, 
the board of directors shall submit organizational and operating plans 
for the fund to a review committee for approval. The review committee 
shall consist of the commissioners of labor and workforce development, 
commerce and insurance, and finance and administration, the state 
treasurer, and the comptroller of the treasury. The review committee 
shall approve the operational and organizational plans if it determines 
the plans to be in accord with this part and to be fiscally sound and 
responsible. If the committee approves the plan, then the fund may 
become fully operational. If the committee does not approve the plan, 
then the committee shall make appropriate recommendations to the board 
of directors, governor, and the speakers of the senate and house of 
representatives concerning any deficiencies.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 900, Â§ 26; 1994, ch. 979, Â§ 7; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41.   







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 7. Interlocal Agreements By Electric Cooperative And Municipal Utilities--->50-6-701.  Part definitions.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-701. Part definitions. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] As used in this part, unless the context otherwise requires: (1) "Association
 captive insurance company" means an association captive insurance 
company described in Â§ 56-13-102, operated by an association described 
in Â§ 56-13-102; (2) "Electric 
cooperative" means an electric cooperative or electric membership 
corporation, whether organized or operating under title 65, chapter 25, 
or similar statutes of any other state, that distributes electric power 
purchased from the Tennessee Valley authority (TVA); (3) "Interlocal agreement" means an agreement authorized by title 12, chapter 9, or by this part, or by both; and (4) "Municipal
 utility" means any governmental entity as defined in Â§ 29-20-102, 
having a system for the distribution of electric power, whether operated
 under the authority of a board of the governmental entity, by a 
department of the governmental entity or under the authority of a board 
created pursuant to the Municipal Electric Plant Law of 1935, compiled 
in title 7, chapter 52, or by the authority of any other law of the 
state, and that operates an electric generation or distribution system 
that distributes electric power purchased from the Tennessee Valley 
authority; and also includes any municipality, county or other political
 subdivision of another state, whether operated under a board or as a 
county or municipal department, that distributes electric power 
purchased from the Tennessee Valley authority.HISTORY: Acts 1995, ch. 488, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 7. Interlocal Agreements By Electric Cooperative And Municipal Utilities--->50-6-702.  Authorization to enter interlocal agreements -- General assembly findings.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-702. Authorization to enter interlocal agreements -- General 
assembly findings. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and 
on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) For
 the purpose of insuring or self-insuring the obligations and 
liabilities under this chapter, municipal utilities and electric 
cooperatives are authorized to enter into interlocal agreements to pool 
their liabilities pursuant to Â§ 29-20-401, as if each electric 
cooperative were a governmental entity for purposes of Â§ 29-20-401, and 
as if each cooperative were a public agency for purposes of title 12, 
chapter 9, and under which the interlocal agreement is administered by 
an association captive insurance company or any of its affiliates or 
subsidiaries. An interlocal arrangement that is administered by an 
association captive insurance company may also provide for the insuring 
or self-insuring of obligations and liabilities arising under the 
federal Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, compiled in
 33 U.S.C. Â§ 901-950, as long as the company has obtained any necessary
 approvals by the appropriate federal agencies.(b) The
 general assembly finds and determines that participation in the 
interlocal agreements by electric cooperatives and municipal utilities 
provides a mutual benefit to help reduce the expense of operations of 
municipal utilities and electric cooperatives and hence reduces the cost
 of electricity for the citizens of the state, and finds that all 
contributions of financial and administrative resources and associated 
costs and expenses made by a municipal utility pursuant to an interlocal
 agreement, as authorized in this part, are made for a public and 
governmental purpose, and that the contributions benefit the 
contributing municipal utilities. To the extent that the interlocal 
agreements provide for the respective parties to indemnify or hold 
harmless each other from certain liabilities arising out of 
participation in the pooling agreement, the provisions are authorized in
 accordance with the findings of the general assembly.HISTORY: Acts 1995, ch. 488, Â§ 2; 2010, ch. 848, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 7. Interlocal Agreements By Electric Cooperative And Municipal Utilities---> 50-6-703.  Association captive insurance companies as administrators for certain entities.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-703. Association
 captive insurance companies as administrators for certain entities. 
 [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 
1, 2014.] An association captive 
insurance company may, directly or through an entity it may create and 
control, enter into agreements with participating governmental entities 
or electric cooperatives under Â§ 29-20-401, to serve as administrator or
 act as the special fund or legal or administrative entity of the pooled
 financial and administrative resources thereunder and under this part, 
and may charge fees and costs for such services as administrator. The 
company may provide insurance or reinsurance for excess losses above the
 amounts that are retained by the pooled financial resources, the same 
as if it were created by governmental entities under Â§ 29-20-401(e), for
 those purposes, an electric cooperative shall be deemed to be a 
governmental entity. To the extent that an association captive insurance
 company shall be deemed to become a party to an interlocal agreement, 
it shall be deemed to have the status of a public agency for those 
purposes. The administrative activities and operations of the fund or 
entity, whether by, through or under the direction or supervision of the
 association captive insurance company or otherwise, shall be subject to
 Â§ 29-20-401(d), and certificates of compliance may be issued as 
authorized by Â§ 29-20-401(c)(2).HISTORY: Acts 1995, ch. 488, Â§ 3.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 7. Interlocal Agreements By Electric Cooperative And Municipal Utilities--->50-6-704.  Liability -- Participation in other arrangements -- No implied repeal.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-704. Liability -- Participation in other arrangements -- No 
implied repeal. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on 
and after July 1, 2014.] (a) Nothing
 in this part shall be construed to confer upon any electric cooperative
 any immunity from liability for damages for injuries to persons or 
property granted to a governmental entity under the provisions of the 
Tennessee Governmental Tort Liability Act, compiled in title 29, chapter
 20, nor to prevent a municipal utility from exercising any right, 
privilege or option it may have under this chapter.(b) Nothing
 in this part shall preclude a municipal utility or electric cooperative
 from participating in any other insured, self-insured, or risk-pooling 
arrangement permitted under any other law of this state.(c) Nothing in this part shall be deemed to be an implied repeal of any of the provisions of title 65, chapter 25.HISTORY: Acts 1995, ch. 488, Â§ 4-6.  


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 7. Interlocal Agreements By Electric Cooperative And Municipal Utilities---> 50-6-705.  Liberal construction.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-705. Liberal construction. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] This
 part shall be liberally construed to permit electric cooperatives and 
municipal utilities to enter into agreements to pool their resources to 
provide for satisfaction of obligations under this chapter, as if 
electric cooperatives were governmental entities under Â§ 29-20-401 or 
public agencies under title 12, chapter 9.HISTORY: Acts 1995, ch. 488, Â§ 7.    


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 8. Uninsured Employers Fund--->50-6-801.  Creation -- Legislative intent -- Uses of fund.
===================================================================



 








 50-6-801. Creation -- Legislative intent -- Uses of fund. (a) There
 is created the uninsured employers fund as an account in the general 
fund, which shall be invested pursuant to Â§ 9-4-603. Moneys from the 
fund may be expended to fund activities authorized by this part. Any 
revenues deposited in this fund shall remain in the fund until expended 
for purposes consistent with this part, and shall not revert to the 
general fund on any June 30. Any appropriation for the fund shall not 
revert to the general fund on any June 30, but shall remain available 
for expenditure in subsequent fiscal years.(b) The
 uninsured employers fund may receive revenues that shall include all 
penalties assessed and collected from employers who fail to provide 
workers' compensation coverage or who fail to qualify as self-insurers 
pursuant to this chapter, and any other amounts that may be 
appropriated. In addition, when deemed necessary in the discretion of 
the administrator and when the balance remaining in the uninsured 
employers fund is less than the amount of funds distributed by the 
division to provide benefits to injured workers in the previous fiscal 
year, the administrator may also withdraw up to twenty-five percent 
(25%) of the balance of funds remaining after the costs and expenditures
 provided by Â§ 50-6-913(b) have been satisfied, from the employee 
misclassification education and enforcement fund to provide benefits 
under this part.(c) The uninsured 
employers fund shall be used for payment of the costs incurred by the 
division of workers' compensation to administer the assessment of and 
collection of penalties provided in Â§ 50-6-412.(d) The
 division may use any revenues remaining in the uninsured employers fund
 that are not used for the purposes provided in subsection (c) to 
provide temporary disability and medical benefits to any eligible 
employee who suffered an injury arising primarily within the course and 
scope of the employee's employment with an employer who failed to secure
 the payment of compensation pursuant to this chapter at the time the 
eligible employee suffered the injury. An employee shall be an eligible 
employee within the meaning provided by this section if: (1) The employee was employed by an employer who failed to secure payment of compensation pursuant to this chapter; (2) The
 employee suffered an injury on or after July 1, 2015, primarily within 
the course and scope of employment, at a time when the employer had 
failed to secure the payment of compensation; (3) The employee was a Tennessee resident on the date of injury; (4) The
 employee provided notice to the division of the injury and of the 
failure of the employer to secure the payment of compensation within a 
reasonable period of time, but in no event more than sixty (60) days, 
after the date of the injury; and (5) Except
 as provided in Â§ 50-6-802(d) and (e), the employee secured a judgment 
for workers' compensation benefits against the employer for the injury.HISTORY: Acts 2000, ch. 972, Â§ 2; 2014, ch. 765, Â§ 1, 2.  


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 8. Uninsured Employers Fund--->50-6-802.  Request for benefits from fund.
===================================================================



 

50-6-802. Request for benefits from fund. (a) An
 eligible employee may request that the division provide the employee 
temporary disability or medical benefits, pursuant to Â§ 50-6-801(d), by 
submitting a request for benefits from the uninsured employers fund to 
the division no more than sixty (60) days after conclusion of the claim,
 including all appeals. The request shall be made on a form prescribed 
by the division, and shall be submitted to the division via certified 
mail. The eligible employee shall include a copy of the judgment with 
the request. Any request for benefits that does not meet the 
requirements of this subsection (a) shall not be considered.(b) For
 claims with a date of injury that is on or after July 1, 2015, the 
division may, upon receipt of a request for benefits pursuant to 
subsection (a) from an eligible employee, provide the employee workers' 
compensation benefits for temporary disability and medical benefits 
only. The division shall promulgate rules, pursuant to the Uniform 
Administrative Procedures Act, compiled in title 4, chapter 5, setting 
forth the circumstances under which benefits may be paid pursuant to 
this part.(c) If the division pays 
workers' compensation benefits to the injured employee, the workers' 
compensation benefits shall be paid to the employee from the uninsured 
employers fund and the amount paid to, or on behalf of, any injured 
employee, pursuant to this part, shall not exceed forty thousand dollars
 ($40,000). Of the forty thousand dollars ($40,000), no more than twenty
 thousand dollars ($20,000) shall be payable for medical benefits and no
 more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) shall be payable for 
temporary disability benefits. However, if less than twenty thousand 
dollars ($20,000) has been paid to the employee for temporary disability
 or medical benefits and the employee has secured a judgment for 
temporary disability or medical benefits in an amount greater than 
twenty thousand dollars ($20,000), the administrator may pay the 
remaining funds to the employee for temporary disability or medical 
benefits. The administrator shall not pay benefits pursuant to this part
 to, or on behalf of, any employee for more than one workplace injury.(d) (1) In
 order to establish medical causation, the administrator shall have 
authority to provide medical benefits to an employee who meets the 
requirements of Â§ 50-6-801(d)(1)-(4) for the payment of the cost 
associated with the employee's visit with a physician to perform an 
evaluation and provide an opinion on medical causation. The employer 
shall be required to reimburse the division for the payment of benefits 
pursuant to this section even when the employee's injury is determined 
not to be compensable under this chapter. (2) When
 medical benefits have been provided pursuant to subdivision (d)(1), the
 amount of payment shall be deducted from the total amount of benefits 
that may be provided under subsection (c) in the event that those 
benefits are provided. However, the provision of medical benefits 
pursuant to this subsection (d) shall not automatically entitle the 
employee to the benefits provided by subsection (c) even when the claim 
is determined to be compensable under this chapter.(e) (1) If
 medical causation is established and a workers' compensation judge 
determines that an employee, who meets the requirements of Â§ 
50-6-801(d)(1)-(4), is entitled to temporary disability or medical 
benefits, following an expedited hearing as provided in Â§ 50-6-239(d), 
the administrator has the discretion to begin paying temporary 
disability or medical benefits. (2) If
 the administrator makes any payments of temporary disability or medical
 benefits pursuant to this subsection (e) and the employee fails to 
prosecute the claim, the division has authority to seek recovery of the 
payments from the employee. (3) The
 provision of medical benefits pursuant to this subsection (e) shall not
 automatically entitle the employee to the benefits provided by 
subsection (c) even when the claim is determined to be compensable under
 this chapter.(f) When an employee 
who has provided notice pursuant to Â§ 50-6-801(d)(4) files a claim for 
workers' compensation benefits against the employer identified in the 
notice, the court of workers' compensation claims shall convene a full 
and final hearing no more than sixty (60) days after the notice of 
hearing has been filed pursuant to Â§ 50-6-239(a).HISTORY: Acts 2014, ch. 765, Â§ 3.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 8. Uninsured Employers Fund--->50-6-803.  Payment of benefits constitutes satisfaction of judgment -- Recovery from employer.
===================================================================



 

50-6-803. Payment of benefits constitutes satisfaction of judgment -- Recovery from employer. (a) The
 payment of workers' compensation benefits to, or on behalf of, an 
injured employee pursuant to this part constitutes satisfaction of the 
judgment against the uninsured employer up to the amount paid. The 
division shall assume the rights of a creditor against the employer and 
may take action to collect the portion of the judgment that it satisfied
 on the employer's behalf.(b) The 
division shall place a lien on the assets of the employer to recover 
money paid pursuant to this part by filing a notice of claim with the 
register of deeds of any county where the employer has assets. Upon 
filing the notice of claim with the appropriate official, the division 
shall be a secured creditor, and any lien secured pursuant to this part 
has first priority over all other liens with the exception of liens 
established for the collection of delinquent tax payments.(c) The
 injured employee may collect the remaining portion of the judgment that
 was not satisfied by payment made pursuant to this part from the 
employer.HISTORY: Acts 2014, ch. 765, Â§ 3.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 9. Construction Services Providers--->50-6-901.  Part definitions.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-901. Part definitions. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] For purposes of this part, unless the context otherwise requires: (1) "Active
 and in good standing as reflected in the records of the secretary of 
state" means a corporation, limited liability company, or partnership 
that is in existence, registered or authorized to transact business in 
this state as reflected in the records of the secretary of state; and in
 the case of a corporation, limited liability company, limited liability
 partnership, or limited partnership, such entity is in good standing 
with the Tennessee department of revenue; (2) "Board" means the state board for licensing contractors; (3) "Commercial construction project" means any construction project that is not: (A) The
 construction, erection, remodeling, repair, improvement, alteration or 
demolition of one (1), two (2), three (3) or four (4) family unit 
residences not exceeding three (3) stories in height or accessory use 
structures in connection with the residences; (B) The
 construction, erection, remodeling, repair, improvement, alteration or 
demolition of any building or structure for use and occupancy by the 
general public which, pursuant to Â§ 62-6-112(f)(2), a small commercial 
building contractor is authorized to bid on and contract for; or (C) Performed
 by any person, municipality, county, metropolitan government, 
cooperative, board, commission, district, or any entity created or 
authorized by public act, private act or general law to provide 
electricity, natural gas, water, waste water services, telephone 
service, telecommunications service, cable service, or Internet service 
or any combination thereof, for sale to consumers in any particular 
service area; (4) "Construction 
project" means the construction, erection, remodeling, repair, 
improvement, alteration or demolition of a building, structure or other 
undertaking; provided, that if a general contractor contracts to erect, 
remodel, repair, improve, alter or demolish multiple buildings, 
structures or undertakings in one (1) contract, all such buildings, 
structures or undertakings described in such contract shall constitute 
one (1) construction project; (5) "Construction services provider" or "provider" means any person or entity engaged in the construction industry; (6) "Corporate
 officer" or "officer of a corporation" means any person who fills an 
office provided for in the corporate charter or articles of 
incorporation of a corporation that in the case of a domestic 
corporation is formed under the laws of this state pursuant to title 48,
 chapters 11-68, or in the case of a foreign corporation is authorized 
to transact business in this state pursuant to title 48, chapters 11-68;
 provided, that a domestic or foreign corporation is active and in good 
standing as reflected in the records of the secretary of state; (7) "Direct
 labor" means the performance of any activity that would be assigned to 
the contracting group as those classifications are designated by the 
rate service organization designated by the commissioner of commerce and
 insurance as provided in Â§ 56-5-320, but does not include: (A) Classification
 code 5604, or any subsequent classification code, for construction 
executives, supervisors, or foremen that are responsible only for the 
oversight of laborers; or (B) Classification
 code 5606, or any subsequent classification code, for project managers,
 construction executives, construction managers and construction 
superintendents having only administrative or managerial 
responsibilities for construction projects by exercising operational 
control indirectly through job supervisors or foremen; (8) "Engaged
 in the construction industry" means any person or entity assigned to 
the contracting group as those classifications are designated by the 
rate service organization designated by the commissioner of commerce and
 insurance as provided in Â§ 56-5-320; provided, that where more than one
 (1) classification applies, the governing classification, as that term 
is defined by the rate service organization designated by the 
commissioner of commerce and insurance as provided in Â§ 56-5-320, shall 
be used to determine whether the person or entity is engaged in the 
construction industry; (9) "Family-owned
 business" means a business entity in which members of the same family 
of the applicant have an aggregate of at least ninety-five percent (95%)
 ownership of such business; (10) "General
 contractor" means the person or entity responsible to the owner or 
developer for the supervision or performance of substantially all of the
 work, labor, and the furnishing of materials in furtherance of the 
construction, erection, remodeling, repair, improvement, alteration or 
demolition of a building, structure or other undertaking and who 
contracts directly with the owner or developer of the building, 
structure or other undertaking; "general contractor" includes a prime 
contractor; (11) "Good standing 
with the Tennessee department of revenue" means the secretary of state 
has received and verified through electronic confirmation or a 
certificate of tax clearance issued by the commissioner of revenue that a
 corporation, limited liability company, limited liability partnership, 
or limited partnership is current on all fees, taxes, and penalties to 
the satisfaction of the commissioner; (12) "Member
 of a limited liability company" means any member of a limited liability
 company formed pursuant to title 48, chapters 201-249 that is active 
and in good standing as reflected in the records of the secretary of 
state; (13) "Members of the same 
family of the applicant" means parents, children, siblings, 
grandparents, grandchildren, stepparents, stepchildren, stepsiblings, or
 spouses of such, and includes adoptive relationships; (14) "Partner"
 means any person who is a member of an association that is formed by 
two (2) or more persons to carry on as co-owners of a business or other 
undertaking for profit and such association is active and in good 
standing as reflected in the records of the secretary of state; (15) "Person" means only a natural person and does not include a business entity; (16) "Registry"
 means the construction services provider workers' compensation 
exemption registry established pursuant to this part and maintained by 
the secretary of state; and (17) "Sole proprietor" means one (1) person who owns a form of business in which that person owns all the assets of such business.HISTORY: Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 13; 2011, ch. 422, Â§ 3.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 9. Construction Services Providers--->50-6-902.  Requirement that construction services providers carry workers' compensation insurance -- Exemptions -- Election by subcontractor. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-902. Requirement
 that construction services providers carry workers' compensation 
insurance -- Exemptions -- Election by subcontractor. [Applicable to 
injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) Except
 as provided in subsection (b), all construction services providers 
shall be required to carry workers' compensation insurance on 
themselves. The requirement set out in this subsection (a) shall apply 
whether or not the provider employs fewer than five (5) employees.(b) To
 the extent there is no restriction on applying for an exemption 
pursuant to Â§ 50-6-903, a construction services provider shall be exempt
 from subsection (a) if the provider: (1) Is
 a construction services provider rendering services on a construction 
project that is not a commercial construction project and is listed on 
the registry; (2) Is a 
construction services provider rendering services on a commercial 
construction project, is listed on the registry and such provider is 
rendering services to a person or entity that complies with Â§ 
50-6-914(b)(2); (3) Is covered 
under a policy of workers' compensation insurance maintained by the 
person or entity for whom the provider is providing services; (4) Is
 a construction services provider performing work directly for the owner
 of the property; provided, however, that this subdivision (b)(4) shall 
not apply to a construction services provider who acts as a general or 
intermediate contractor and who subsequently subcontracts any of the 
work contracted to be performed on behalf of the owner; (5) Is
 a construction services provider building a dwelling or other 
structure, or performing maintenance, repairs, or making additions to 
structures, on the construction service provider's own property; or (6) Is a provider whose employment at the time of injury is casual as provided in Â§ 50-6-106.(c) A
 subcontractor engaged in the construction industry under contract to a 
general contractor engaged in the construction industry may elect to be 
covered under any policy of workers' compensation insurance insuring the
 general contractor upon written agreement of the general contractor, 
regardless of whether such subcontractor is on the registry established 
pursuant to this part, by filing written notice of the election, on a 
form prescribed by the administrator of the workers' compensation 
division, with the division. It is the responsibility of the general 
contractor to file the written notice with the division. Failure of the 
general contractor to file the written notice shall not operate to 
relieve or alter the obligation of an insurance company to provide 
coverage to a subcontractor when the subcontractor can produce evidence 
of payment of premiums to the insurance company for the coverage. The 
election shall in no way terminate or affect the independent contractor 
status of the subcontractor for any other purpose than to permit 
workers' compensation coverage. The election of coverage may be 
terminated by the subcontractor or general contractor by providing 
written notice of the termination to the division and to all other 
parties consenting to the prior election. The termination shall be 
effective thirty (30) days from the date of the notice to all other 
parties consenting to the prior election and to the division.(d) Nothing
 in this part shall be construed as exempting or preventing a 
construction services provider from carrying workers' compensation 
insurance for any of its employees. The requirement set out in this 
subsection (d) shall apply whether or not the provider employs fewer 
than five (5) employees.HISTORY: Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 13; 2011, ch. 422, Â§ 4; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1; 2014, ch. 903, Â§ 9.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 9. Construction Services Providers---> 50-6-902.  Requirement that construction services providers carry workers' compensation insurance -- Exemptions -- Election by subcontractor.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-902. Requirement
 that construction services providers carry workers' compensation 
insurance -- Exemptions -- Election by subcontractor. [Applicable to 
injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.] (a) Except
 as provided in subsection (b), all construction services providers 
shall be required to carry workers' compensation insurance on 
themselves. The requirement set out in this subsection (a) shall apply 
whether or not the provider employs fewer than five (5) employees.(b) To
 the extent there is no restriction on applying for an exemption 
pursuant to Â§ 50-6-903, a construction services provider shall be exempt
 from subsection (a) if the provider: (1) Is
 a construction services provider rendering services on a construction 
project that is not a commercial construction project and is listed on 
the registry; (2) Is a 
construction services provider rendering services on a commercial 
construction project, is listed on the registry and such provider is 
rendering services to a person or entity that complies with Â§ 
50-6-914(b)(2); (3) Is covered 
under a policy of workers' compensation insurance maintained by the 
person or entity for whom the provider is providing services; (4) Is
 a construction services provider performing work directly for the owner
 of the property; provided, however, that this subdivision (b)(4) shall 
not apply to a construction services provider who acts as a general or 
intermediate contractor and who subsequently subcontracts any of the 
work contracted to be performed on behalf of the owner; (5) Is
 a construction services provider building a dwelling or other 
structure, or performing maintenance, repairs, or making additions to 
structures, on the construction service provider's own property; or (6) Is a provider whose employment at the time of injury is casual as provided in Â§ 50-6-106.(c) A
 subcontractor engaged in the construction industry under contract to a 
general contractor engaged in the construction industry may elect to be 
covered under any policy of workers' compensation insurance insuring the
 general contractor upon written agreement of the general contractor, 
regardless of whether such subcontractor is on the registry established 
pursuant to this part, by filing written notice of the election, on a 
form prescribed by the commissioner of labor and workforce development, 
with the department. It is the responsibility of the general contractor 
to file the written notice with the department. Failure of the general 
contractor to file the written notice shall not operate to relieve or 
alter the obligation of an insurance company to provide coverage to a 
subcontractor when the subcontractor can produce evidence of payment of 
premiums to the insurance company for the coverage. The election shall 
in no way terminate or affect the independent contractor status of the 
subcontractor for any other purpose than to permit workers' compensation
 coverage. The election of coverage may be terminated by the 
subcontractor or general contractor by providing written notice of the 
termination to the department and to all other parties consenting to the
 prior election. The termination shall be effective thirty (30) days 
from the date of the notice to all other parties consenting to the prior
 election and to the department.(d) Nothing
 in this part shall be construed as exempting or preventing a 
construction services provider from carrying workers' compensation 
insurance for any of its employees. The requirement set out in this 
subsection (d) shall apply whether or not the provider employs fewer 
than five (5) employees.HISTORY: Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 13; 2011, ch. 422, Â§ 4.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 9. Construction Services Providers--->50-6-903.  Criteria for applying for exemption.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-903. Criteria for applying for exemption. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) Any construction services provider who meets one (1) of the following criteria may apply for an exemption from Â§ 50-6-902(a): (1) An
 officer of a corporation who is engaged in the construction industry; 
provided, that no more than five (5) officers of one (1) corporation 
shall be eligible for an exemption; (2) A
 member of a limited liability company who is engaged in the 
construction industry if such member owns at least twenty percent (20%) 
of such company; (3) A partner in
 a limited partnership, limited liability partnership or a general 
partnership who is engaged in the construction industry if such partner 
owns at least twenty percent (20%) of such partnership; (4) A sole proprietor engaged in the construction industry; or (5) An
 owner of any business entity listed in subdivisions (a)(1)-(3) that is 
family-owned; provided, that no more than five (5) owners of one (1) 
family-owned business may be exempt from Â§ 50-6-902(a).(b) A
 construction services provider may be eligible for and may utilize 
multiple exemptions if the construction services provider meets the 
requirements set out in subsection (a) for each such exemption and 
complies with Â§ 50-6-904 for each such exemption in which the 
construction services provider seeks to obtain; provided, however, that a
 construction services provider applying for a second or subsequent 
exemption shall not be required to pay the fees set out in Â§ 
50-6-912(a)(1) and (2), but shall instead pay the fee set out in Â§ 
50-6-912(a)(9) for each subsequent workers' compensation exemption 
registration and shall pay the fee set out in Â§ 50-6-912(a)(10) for each
 subsequent registration renewal.(c) (1) A
 construction services provider who is an individual and who does not 
meet the criteria established in subsection (a), but who is a member of a
 recognized religious sect or division and is an adherent of established
 tenets or teachers of such sect or division by reason of which such 
construction services provider is conscientiously opposed to acceptance 
of the benefits provided by this chapter may apply for an exemption from
 Â§ 50-6-902(a); provided, however, that no more than five (5) 
individuals associated with one business entity may be exempt from Â§ 
50-6-902(a). (2) Any applicant 
applying for an exemption from Â§ 50-6-902(a) pursuant to subdivision 
(c)(1) shall provide an affidavit from the leader of the recognized 
religious sect or division stating that the individual filing the 
application for an exemption is a member of the recognized religious 
sect or division and is exempt, as evidenced by the Internal Revenue 
Service Form 4029, or similar form used by the internal revenue service.
 The leader of the recognized religious sect or division shall notify 
the secretary of state and department, in writing, if the member of the 
recognized religious sect or division who obtains an exemption from Â§ 
50-6-902(a) leaves or withdraws membership from the recognized religious
 sect or division. (3) Each 
individual employee of a construction services provider who meets the 
religious exemption requirements pursuant to this subsection (c) shall 
pay the fees set out in Â§ 50-6-912(a)(1) and (a)(2). Any collected fees 
shall be deposited into the employee misclassification education and 
enforcement fund, pursuant to Â§ 50-6-913.HISTORY: Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 13; 2011, ch. 422, Â§ 5; 2013, ch. 476, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 9. Construction Services Providers--->50-6-904.  Application for construction services provider registration.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-904. Application for construction services provider 
registration. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on 
and after July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) (A) Any
 construction services provider applying for an exemption from Â§ 
50-6-902(a) who has not been issued a license by the board shall obtain a
 construction services provider registration from the secretary of state
 at the same time such provider applies for such exemption. (B) The
 secretary of state is authorized and directed to issue the construction
 services provider registration on behalf of the board. The secretary of
 state shall issue an identification number assigned to the provider's 
registration. The board shall obtain such identification number and 
other identifying information from the secretary of state. (2) Any
 construction services provider requesting exemption from Â§ 50-6-902(a) 
shall submit an application along with the required filing fees to the 
secretary of state. The applicant shall provide sufficient documentation
 for the secretary of state to assure that such applicant meets the 
requirements set out in Â§ 50-6-902, including, but not limited to: (A) The applicant's full legal name; (B) The applicant's birth month; (C) The
 applicant's physical address; provided, that the applicant may provide a
 post office box number for purposes of receiving mail from the 
secretary of state, as long as the applicant also provides a physical 
address for the business entity for which the applicant is an officer, 
member, partner or owner; (D) A telephone number through which the applicant can be reached; (E) The name of the business entity through which the applicant is seeking the workers' compensation exemption; (F) The
 federal employer identification number issued to the applicant if a 
sole proprietor or a business entity for which the applicant is an 
officer, member, partner or owner seeking exemption pursuant to Â§ 
50-6-903, and the last four (4) digits of the applicant's social 
security number; provided, however, that if an applicant seeks an 
exemption pursuant to Â§ 50-6-903(c), the applicant may provide the last 
four (4) digits of a control number issued to the applicant by the 
social security administration instead of the last four (4) digits of 
the applicant's social security number; (G) The
 contractor license number issued by the board to such applicant or the 
construction services provider registration number issued by the 
secretary of state to such applicant; (H) A
 current license issued by a local government pursuant to Â§ 67-4-723, if
 the business entity through which the applicant is seeking the workers'
 compensation exemption is required by law to obtain such license; (I) Any other information the secretary of state deems necessary to identify such applicant; and (J) If
 the construction services provider is applying for an exemption 
pursuant to the criteria set out in Â§ 50-6-903(c), the provider shall 
submit a copy of an approved Internal Revenue Service Form 4029 or 
similar form used by the internal revenue service, to show that an 
application for exemption from social security and medicare taxes and 
waiver of benefits has been approved for such provider applying for an 
exemption pursuant to this part. (3) The
 secretary of state shall verify that the applicant meets the 
qualifications set out in Â§ 50-6-902 upon a review of its records and 
the records provided by such applicant.(b) The
 application shall be on a form designed by the secretary of state and 
shall contain a statement that specifies the eligibility requirements 
for exemption, contain an attestation that the applicant meets the 
eligibility requirements and contain a statement that a false statement 
on such application is subject to the penalties of perjury set out in Â§ 
39-16-702.(c) The application, as 
well as a process for submission of such application, shall be available
 through the secretary of state's web site or by contacting the 
secretary of state's office in person or by mail.HISTORY: Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 13; 2013, ch. 476, Â§ 2, 3.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 9. Construction Services Providers--->50-6-905.  Filing of application -- Issuance of notice -- Publication on registry -- Correction of documents filed with secretary of state -- Address and change of address.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-905. Filing of application -- Issuance of notice -- Publication
 on registry -- Correction of documents filed with secretary of state --
 Address and change of address. [Applicable to injuries occurring both 
prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) If
 a construction services provider's application delivered to the 
secretary of state meets the requirements of this part, as determined by
 the secretary of state, the secretary of state shall file the 
application and: (1) Issue a notice to such provider that the provider is listed on the registry; and (2) Publish
 on the registry, contained on the secretary of state's web site, the 
provider's name and other identifying information, including, but not 
limited to: (A) The full legal name of the provider; (B) The specific identification number issued to the provider by the secretary of state upon filing the application; (C) The period in which the provider is exempt, including the date and time in which such exemption expires; and (D) Any other identifying information the secretary of state deems necessary for the public to identify such provider.(b) The
 provider shall not be exempt from the requirement of Â§ 50-6-902(a) 
until the provider's application is filed by the secretary of state and 
the applicant's name and other identifying information is published on 
the registry. If a provider's exemption is revoked pursuant to Â§ 
50-6-908, such revocation is effective upon the provider's name and 
other identifying information no longer appearing on the registry after 
being removed by the secretary of state pursuant to Â§ 50-6-908.(c) A
 provider listed on the registry may correct a document filed with the 
secretary of state if the document contains an incorrect statement or 
was defectively executed, attested, sealed, verified or acknowledged. A 
document shall be corrected in a manner established by the secretary of 
state.(d) A provider listed on the 
registry shall maintain a current physical mailing address with the 
secretary of state. A change of address shall be made in a manner 
established by the secretary of state.HISTORY: Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 13.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 9. Construction Services Providers--->50-6-906.  Refusal by secretary of state to file application -- Reversal or modification by court -- Hearing -- Appeal.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-906. Refusal by secretary of state to file application -- 
Reversal or modification by court -- Hearing -- Appeal. [Applicable to 
injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) If
 the secretary of state refuses to file an application and list the 
construction services provider on the registry, the secretary of state 
shall return such application to the provider within ten (10) business 
days after the document was received for filing, together with a brief, 
written explanation of the reason for the secretary of state's refusal 
to file.(b) If the secretary of 
state refuses to file an application and list a provider on the 
registry, the provider may appeal the refusal to the chancery court of 
Davidson County. The appeal shall be commenced by petitioning the court 
to compel listing such provider on the registry and shall attach to the 
petition the application and the secretary of state's explanation of the
 secretary of state's refusal to file.(c) The
 court may reverse or modify the actions of the secretary of state if 
the rights of the provider have been prejudiced because the secretary of
 state's actions are: (1) In violation of constitutional or statutory provisions; (2) In excess of the statutory authority of the secretary of state; (3) Made upon unlawful procedure; or (4) Arbitrary or capricious or characterized by abuse of discretion or clearly unwarranted exercise of discretion.(d) After
 any hearing deemed necessary by the court, the court may summarily 
order the secretary of state to list such provider on the registry or 
take other action the court considers appropriate.(e) The court's final decision may be appealed as in other civil proceedings.HISTORY: Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 13.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 9. Construction Services Providers--->50-6-907.  Term of validity of exemption -- Renewal.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-907. Term of validity of 
exemption -- Renewal. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to 
and on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) The
 exemption obtained pursuant to this part shall be valid for two (2) 
years from a date and time set by the secretary of state. No more than 
sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the exemption period, a 
construction services provider may file an application to renew an 
exemption. Renewal of an exemption shall be made in a manner established
 by the secretary of state.(b) The 
secretary of state shall remove the construction services provider's 
name from the registry at the close of business on the day the 
provider's exemption expires. If the exemption expires on a day that 
state offices are closed or the secretary of state's office is closed, 
the exemption shall expire at the close of business on the next business
 day.(c) A construction services 
provider whose registration expires under this section may renew the 
exemption by following the procedure outlined in Â§ 50-6-904.HISTORY: Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 13.     


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 9. Construction Services Providers--->50-6-908.  Revocation of exemption by provider or secretary of state.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-908. Revocation of exemption by provider or secretary of state.
 [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 
1, 2014.] (a) (1) Any construction services provider who obtains an exemption and subsequently chooses to revoke such exemption shall: (A) Give
 notice to the person or entity for whom the provider may currently be 
providing services of the revocation in accordance with a form 
prescribed by the secretary of state; (B) Attest
 as to whether or not the provider has any employment related injuries 
at the time of such revocation that occurred while providing services to
 a person or entity that did not provide coverage under a policy of 
workers' compensation; and (C) Within
 twenty-four (24) hours of such revocation, notify any person or entity 
for whom the provider is currently providing services that the provider 
has voluntarily revoked the provider's workers' compensation exemption. (2) Upon filing such notice, the secretary of state shall remove the construction services provider's name from the registry. (3) A
 construction services provider who revokes an exemption under this 
section may reapply for an exemption by following the procedure set 
forth in Â§ 50-6-904.(b) (1) In
 addition to the revocation set out in subsection (a), a workers' 
compensation exemption shall be revoked by the secretary of state upon: (A) Notification
 from the board that the board has revoked or suspended any license 
issued to the construction services provider by the board, including a 
license issued to a business entity through which the construction 
services provider obtained such an exemption. For purposes of this 
subdivision (b)(1)(A), if a construction services provider's license is 
revoked, whether or not such license is in the provider's individual 
name or in the name of a business entity through which the provider 
obtained an exemption, then any exemption obtained through such business
 entity shall be revoked; (B) Notification
 from the department of any violations of Â§ 50-6-412 by the construction
 services provider, including any violation against a business entity 
through which the construction services provider obtained such an 
exemption. For purposes of this subdivision (b)(1)(B), if a construction
 services provider has violated Â§ 50-6-412, whether or not such 
violation was committed by the individual or a business entity through 
which the provider obtained an exemption, then any exemption obtained 
through such business entity shall be revoked and all exemptions in the 
provider's name shall be subject to revocation; (C) A
 determination by the secretary of state that the construction services 
provider no longer meets the requirements for an exemption established 
pursuant to this part; or (D) A
 determination by the secretary of state that the construction services 
provider failed to renew prior to the expiration date of such exemption 
or the provider failed to pay any fees required to be paid pursuant to 
this part. (2) Any notification 
of a violation made by the department pursuant to subdivision (b)(1)(B) 
shall include information indicating whether such violation requires a 
temporary or permanent revocation pursuant to Â§ 50-6-412. (3) If a provider's exemption is revoked pursuant to this section, the secretary of state shall: (A) Remove
 the construction services provider's name from the registry within 
seven (7) days of receipt of notification from the department or the 
board, or upon making a determination as provided in subdivision 
(b)(1)(C) or (b)(1)(D); and (B) Notify
 the construction services provider that such provider is required to 
notify, within twenty-four (24) hours of such revocation, any person or 
entity for whom the provider is currently providing services that the 
provider's workers' compensation exemption has been revoked. (4) If
 a provider's exemption is revoked pursuant to subdivision (b)(1), the 
administrative and judicial procedures available to such provider shall 
be those procedures set out in Â§ 50-6-906.(c) If
 a construction services provider's exemption is revoked pursuant to 
this section, the construction services provider shall be required to 
carry workers' compensation insurance as provided in Â§ 50-6-902(a); 
provided, that such construction services provider does not otherwise 
meet an exemption set out in Â§ 50-6-902(b).(d) A
 construction services provider whose exemption is revoked for any 
reason set out in this part shall be notified of such revocation in 
writing, and shall not be entitled to a refund of filing fees.HISTORY: Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 13; 2011, ch. 422, Â§ 6-8.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 9. Construction Services Providers--->50-6-909.  Reinstatement of exemption.
===================================================================



 

50-6-909. Reinstatement of exemption. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) Except
 as provided in Â§ 50-6-412(h)(2), a construction services provider whose
 exemption is revoked pursuant to Â§ 50-6-908 may apply to reinstate such
 exemption in the same manner as provided for in this part for an 
initial application.(b) A 
construction services provider whose exemption is revoked under Â§ 
50-6-908(b) may only be granted a reinstatement of exemption: (1) Upon notification to the secretary of state from the board that such provider's license is no longer revoked or suspended; (2) Upon
 notification from the department of labor and workforce development to 
the secretary of state that the provider qualified for reinstatement 
pursuant to Â§ 50-6-412(g); and (3) If
 the secretary of state determines that the provider meets the 
requirements for an exemption established pursuant to this part.(c) Upon
 verification by the secretary of state that the requirements of 
subsection (b) are met, the secretary of state shall file the 
application in accordance with Â§ 50-6-905.HISTORY: Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 13.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 9. Construction Services Providers--->50-6-910.  Action to recover damages.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-910. Action to recover damages. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) Any
 action to recover damages for injury, as defined by Â§ 50-6-102, by a 
construction services provider shall proceed as at common law, and the 
defendant in the suit may make use of all common law defenses if, at the
 time of the injury, the construction services provider was: (1) Listed
 on the registry as having a workers' compensation exemption and working
 in the service of a business entity through which the construction 
services provider obtained such an exemption; (2) Not
 covered under a policy of workers' compensation insurance maintained by
 the person or entity for whom the provider was providing services at 
the time of such injury; and (3) Eligible for an exemption pursuant to Â§ 50-6-914(b)(2), if such eligibility requirements apply, at the time of such injury.(b) Any
 construction services provider proceeding as at common law pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall forego the right to sue to establish or reestablish
 workers' compensation coverage.HISTORY: Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 13; 2011, ch. 422, Â§ 9.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 9. Construction Services Providers--->50-6-911.  Notice to public of exemptions -- Web site -- Additions and deletions from registry.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-911. Notice to public of exemptions -- Web site 
-- Additions and deletions from registry. [Applicable to injuries 
occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) (1) The
 secretary of state shall provide notice on its web site that the 
registry is for purposes of establishing providers who are exempt from 
workers' compensation coverage and in no way reflects licensing or 
certification of any construction services provider. (2) The
 board, the department of commerce and insurance and the department of 
labor and workforce development shall each develop a notice provision to
 inform the public that any person or entity interested in determining 
whether a construction services provider is exempt from workers' 
compensation coverage shall review the secretary of state's web site. 
Such notice provision shall be prominently displayed on the web sites of
 the board, the department of commerce and insurance and the department 
of labor and workforce development.(b) (1) The
 secretary of state shall provide notice to the department of labor and 
workforce development, the board and the department of commerce and 
insurance when a construction services provider is added to or removed 
from the registry. (2) If any 
construction services provider has a license issued by the board, and 
such license is revoked or suspended, the board shall immediately notify
 the secretary of state, in order for the secretary of state to revoke 
such provider's exemption pursuant to Â§ 50-6-908(b).HISTORY: Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 13.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 9. Construction Services Providers--->50-6-912.  Fees.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-912. Fees. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) The secretary of state may charge the following maximum fees for each of the following: (1) The
 issuance of a construction services provider registration to providers 
who have not been issued a license by the board 
......................$50 (2) The issuance of a construction services provider workers' compensation exemption ......................$50 (3) The filing of correction information pursuant to Â§ 50-6-905(c) ......................$20 (4) The filing of change of address information pursuant to Â§ 50-6-905(d) ......................$20 (5) The filing of a construction services provider workers' compensation exemption renewal ......................$50 (6) The
 filing of a construction services provider registration renewal to 
providers who have not been issued a license by the board 
......................$50 (7) The filling of a revocation pursuant to Â§ 50-6-908(a) ......................$20 (8) The issuance of a copy of the notice issued pursuant to Â§ 50-6-905(a)(1) ......................$20 (9) The
 issuance of a second or subsequent construction services provider 
workers' compensation exemption registration ......................$20 
per registration (10) The filing 
of a second or subsequent construction services provider workers' 
compensation exemption renewal ..................... $20 per renewal(b) In
 addition to the maximum fees authorized in subsection (a), the 
secretary of state is authorized to charge an online transaction fee to 
cover costs associated with processing payments for applications 
submitted online.(c) Except as 
provided in subsections (a) and (b), no other fees shall be charged by 
the secretary of state to administer this part.HISTORY: Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 13; 2011, ch. 422, Â§ 10; 2012, ch. 1030, Â§ 2.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 9. Construction Services Providers---> 50-6-913.  Creation of employee misclassification education and enforcement fund -- Costs of administration.  [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

First of 2 versions of this section50-6-913. Creation
 of employee misclassification education and enforcement fund -- Costs 
of administration. [Applicable to injuries occurring on and after July 
1, 2014.] (a) There is created
 a fund to be known as the "employee misclassification education and 
enforcement fund." Any fee collected pursuant to Â§ 50-6-912(a) shall be 
deposited in the employee misclassification education and enforcement 
fund. Moneys in the fund shall be invested by the state treasurer in 
accordance with the provisions of Â§ 9-4-603. The fund shall be 
administered by the administrator of the workers' compensation division.(b) All
 costs of the secretary of state associated with the administration of 
this part shall be paid by the administrator of the workers' 
compensation division from the employee misclassification education and 
enforcement fund. Moneys remaining in the fund after such payment may be
 expended, subject to appropriation by the general assembly, at the 
direction of the administrator of the workers' compensation division for
 the purchase of computer software and hardware designed to identify 
potential employee misclassification activity, for the hiring of 
additional employees to investigate potential employee misclassification
 activity, for education of employers and employees regarding the 
requirements of this part and in support of the ongoing investigation 
and prosecution of employee misclassification.(c) Any
 amount in the employee misclassification education and enforcement fund
 at the end of any fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund, but
 shall remain available for the purposes set forth in subsection (b). 
Interest accruing on investments and deposits of the employee 
misclassification education and enforcement fund shall be credited to 
such account, shall not revert to the general fund, and shall be carried
 forward into each subsequent fiscal year.HISTORY: Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 13; 2013, ch. 282, Â§ 1; 2013, ch. 424, Â§ 2.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 9. Construction Services Providers--->50-6-913.  Creation of employee misclassification education and enforcement fund -- Costs of administration.  [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

Second of 2 versions of this section50-6-913. Creation
 of employee misclassification education and enforcement fund -- Costs 
of administration. [Applicable to injuries occurring prior to July 1, 
2014.] (a) There is created a 
fund to be known as the "employee misclassification education and 
enforcement fund." Any fee collected pursuant to Â§ 50-6-912(a) shall be 
deposited in the employee misclassification education and enforcement 
fund. Moneys in the fund shall be invested by the state treasurer in 
accordance with the provisions of Â§ 9-4-603. The fund shall be 
administered by the commissioner of labor and workforce development.(b) All
 costs of the secretary of state associated with the administration of 
this part shall be paid by the commissioner of labor and workforce 
development from the employee misclassification education and 
enforcement fund. Moneys remaining in the fund after such payment may be
 expended, subject to appropriation by the general assembly, at the 
direction of the commissioner of labor and workforce development for the
 purchase of computer software and hardware designed to identify 
potential employee misclassification activity, for the hiring of 
additional employees to investigate potential employee misclassification
 activity, for education of employers and employees regarding the 
requirements of this part and in support of the ongoing investigation 
and prosecution of employee misclassification.(c) Any
 amount in the employee misclassification education and enforcement fund
 at the end of any fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund, but
 shall remain available for the purposes set forth in subsection (b). 
Interest accruing on investments and deposits of the employee 
misclassification education and enforcement fund shall be credited to 
such account, shall not revert to the general fund, and shall be carried
 forward into each subsequent fiscal year.HISTORY: Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 13; 2013, ch. 424, Â§ 2.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 9. Construction Services Providers--->50-6-914.  Liability of general contractor, intermediate contractor or subcontractor for injured employee -- Claims.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-914. Liability of general 
contractor, intermediate contractor or subcontractor for injured 
employee -- Claims. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and
 on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) Except
 as provided for in subsection (b), a general contractor, intermediate 
contractor or subcontractor shall be liable for compensation to any 
employee injured while in the employ of any of the subcontractors of the
 general contractor, intermediate contractor or subcontractor and 
engaged upon the subject matter of the contract to the same extent as 
the immediate employer.(b) (1) Notwithstanding
 subsection (a) and subject to subdivision (b)(2), a general contractor,
 intermediate contractor or subcontractor shall not be liable for 
workers' compensation to a construction services provider listed on the 
registry established pursuant to this part. (2) (A) No
 more than three (3) construction services providers performing direct 
labor on a commercial construction project may be exempt from Â§ 
50-6-902(a). (B) For purposes 
of subdivision (b)(2)(A), the three (3) construction services providers 
shall be selected by the general contractor. The limit of three (3) set 
out in subdivision (b)(2)(A) shall be three (3) individuals listed on 
the registry as having a workers' compensation exemption and working in 
the service of a business entity through which the construction services
 provider obtained such an exemption. (C) If
 a general contractor allows a construction services provider to provide
 services on a commercial construction project while such provider is 
utilizing an exemption pursuant to this part, the general contractor 
shall: (i) Notify each such
 construction services provider in writing that the provider has been 
chosen by the general contractor as one of the three (3) construction 
services providers performing direct labor who may be exempt from Â§ 
50-6-902(a); and (ii) Maintain
 a record identifying each such construction services provider. The 
general contractor shall make the record maintained pursuant to this 
subdivision (b)(2)(C)(ii) available for inspection upon request by the 
general contractor's insurance provider, the department, and the 
department of commerce and insurance.(c) Any
 general contractor, intermediate contractor or subcontractor who pays 
compensation under subsection (a) may recover the amount paid from any 
person or entity who, independently of this section, would have been 
liable to pay compensation to the injured employee, or from any 
subcontractor.(d) Every claim for 
compensation under this section shall be presented first to and 
instituted against the immediate employer, but the proceedings shall not
 constitute a waiver of the employee's rights to recover compensation 
under this chapter from the general contractor, intermediate contractor 
or subcontractor; provided, that the collection of full compensation 
from one (1) employer shall bar recovery by the employee against any 
others, and the employee shall not collect from all employers a total 
compensation in excess of the amount for which any of the contractors is
 liable.(e) This section applies 
only in cases where the injury occurred on, in, or about the premises on
 which the general contractor has undertaken to execute work or that are
 otherwise under the general contractor's control or management.HISTORY: Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 13; 2011, ch. 422, Â§ 11.   




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 9. Construction Services Providers--->50-6-915.  Records not open -- Exception for registry. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-915. Records not open -- Exception for registry. [Applicable to
 injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] Notwithstanding
 any law to the contrary, records maintained by the secretary of state 
relative to the construction services provider registration and to the 
workers' compensation exemption registration, other than records 
displayed on the registry established pursuant to this part, shall not 
constitute a public record as defined in Â§ 10-7-503 and shall not be 
open for public inspection.HISTORY: Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 13.  


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 9. Construction Services Providers--->50-6-916.  Contractor may require a certificate of workers' compensation insurance.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-916. Contractor may 
require a certificate of workers' compensation insurance. [Applicable 
to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] Nothing
 in this part shall be construed as preventing or prohibiting any 
contractor from requiring a certificate of workers' compensation 
insurance from any of its subcontractors or any construction services 
providers providing services to such contractor.HISTORY: Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 13.   


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 9. Construction Services Providers--->50-6-917.  Coverage by a policy of workers' compensation issued through assigned risk plan.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-917. Coverage by a policy of workers' compensation issued 
through assigned risk plan. [Applicable to injuries occurring both 
prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] A
 policy of workers' compensation insurance issued through the assigned 
risk plan as provided in Â§ 56-5-314 that insures a person engaged in the
 construction industry shall be governed by this part, and a state 
agency shall not impose requirements relative to this part on such a 
policy other than those imposed by this part.HISTORY: Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 13.    


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 9. Construction Services Providers--->50-6-918.  Annual recommendations regarding programs and services funded through the employee misclassification education and enforcement fund.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-918. Annual recommendations regarding programs and services 
funded through the employee misclassification education and enforcement 
fund. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after 
July 1, 2014.] Beginning with fiscal 
year 2012-2013, and each fiscal year thereafter, the employee 
misclassification advisory task force created pursuant to former Â§ 
50-6-919 [repealed] shall make recommendations to the general assembly 
regarding programs and services to be funded from the employee 
misclassification education and enforcement fund created pursuant to Â§ 
50-6-913.HISTORY: Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 13. 


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 9. Construction Services Providers--->50-6-919.  [Repealed.]
===================================================================



 

50-6-919. [Repealed.]HISTORY: Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 13; 2013, ch. 236, Â§ 31; repealed by Acts 2014, ch. 512, Â§ 2, effective March 6, 2014.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 9. Construction Services Providers--->50-6-920.  Offense -- Violation.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-920. Offense -- Violation. [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] (a) It is an offense for any employer to knowingly: (1) Coerce
 or attempt to coerce, as a precondition to employment or otherwise, a 
job applicant to obtain an exemption pursuant to this part; or (2) Coerce,
 attempt to coerce, discharge or take any adverse employment action 
against an employee because the employee has failed to obtain an 
exemption pursuant to this part.(b) A violation of subsection (a) is a Class A misdemeanor.HISTORY: Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 13.   


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 6. Workers Compensation Law--->Part 9. Construction Services Providers--->50-6-921.  Effective date of exemption -- Maintaining exemption under prior law.  [Applicable to injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.]
===================================================================



 








 50-6-921. Effective date of 
exemption -- Maintaining exemption under prior law. [Applicable to 
injuries occurring both prior to and on and after July 1, 2014.] The
 construction services provider workers' compensation exemption for any 
provider not exempt prior to March 1, 2011, who has been placed on the 
workers' compensation exemption registry by the secretary of state shall
 be in effect beginning at 12:00 a.m. on March 1, 2011, regardless of 
such provider's date of application; provided, that any person exempt 
under provisions of law in effect prior to March 1, 2011, shall maintain
 such exemption until March 1, 2011.HISTORY: Acts 2010, ch. 1149, Â§ 19(b); 2011, ch. 422, Â§ 12.          


 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 9. Drug Free Workplace--->50-9-101. Legislative intent.
===================================================================



 

(a) It is the intent of the general assembly to promote drug-free workplaces in order that employers in this state be afforded the opportunity to maximize their levels of productivity, enhance their competitive positions in the marketplace and reach their desired levels of success without experiencing the costs, delays and tragedies associated with work-related accidents resulting from drug or alcohol abuse by employees. It is further the intent of the general assembly that drug and alcohol abuse be discouraged and that employees who choose to engage in drug or alcohol abuse face the risk of unemployment and the forfeiture of workers' compensation benefits.

(b) If an employer implements a drug-free workplace program in accordance with this chapter, which includes notice, education and procedural requirements for testing for drugs and alcohol pursuant to rules developed by the division, the covered employer may require the employee to submit to a test for the presence of drugs or alcohol and, if a drug or alcohol is found to be present in the employee's system at a level prescribed by statute or by rule adopted pursuant to this chapter, the employee may be terminated and forfeits eligibility for workers' compensation medical and indemnity benefits. However, a drug-free workplace program must require the covered employer to notify all employees that it is a condition of employment for an employee to refrain from reporting to work or working with the presence of drugs or alcohol in the employee's body and, if an injured employee refuses to submit to a test for drugs or alcohol, the employee forfeits eligibility for workers' compensation medical and indemnity benefits.




[Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 50; 1997, ch. 533, Â§ 17.]




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 9. Drug Free Workplace--->50-9-102. Applicability.
===================================================================



 

50-9-102. Applicability.  Sections
 50-9-103 -- 50-9-111 apply to a drug-free workplace program implemented
 pursuant to rules adopted by the administrator of the division of 
workers' compensation. The application of this chapter is subject to the
 provisions of any applicable collective bargaining agreement. Nothing 
in the program authorized by this chapter is intended to authorize any 
employer to test any applicant or employee for alcohol or drugs in any 
manner inconsistent with federal constitutional or statutory 
requirements, including those imposed by the Americans with Disabilities
 Act, compiled in 42 U.S.C. Â§ 12101 et seq. and the National Labor 
Relations Act, compiled in 29 U.S.C. Â§ 151 et seq.HISTORY: Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 50; 1997, ch. 533, Â§ 18; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2014, ch. 903, Â§ 10




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 9. Drug Free Workplace--->50-9-103. Chapter Definitions.
===================================================================



 

50-9-103. Chapter definitions.  As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires: (1) "Alcohol"
 has the same meaning in this chapter when used in the federal 
regulations describing the procedures used for testing of alcohol by 
programs operating pursuant to the authority of the United States 
department of transportation, currently compiled at 49 CFR part 40. It 
is intended that the definition shall change as the department of 
transportation's regulations are revised; (2) "Alcohol
 test" means an analysis of breath, or blood, or any other analysis that
 determines the presence and level or absence of alcohol as authorized 
by the United States department of transportation in its rules and 
guidelines concerning alcohol testing and drug testing; (3) "Chain
 of custody" refers to the methodology of tracking specified materials 
or substances for the purpose of maintaining control and accountability 
from initial collection to final disposition for all such materials or 
substances, and providing for accountability at each stage in handling, 
testing and storing specimens and reporting test results; (4) "Confirmation
 test," "confirmed test" or "confirmed drug or alcohol test" means a 
second analytical procedure used to identify the presence of a specific 
drug or alcohol or metabolite in a specimen, which test must be 
different in scientific principle from that of the initial test 
procedure and must be capable of providing requisite specificity, 
sensitivity and quantitative accuracy; (5) "Covered
 employer" means a person or entity that employs a person, is covered by
 the Workers' Compensation Law, compiled in chapter 6 of this title, 
maintains a drug-free workplace pursuant to this chapter and includes on
 the posting required by Â§ 50-9-105 a specific statement that the policy
 is being implemented pursuant to this chapter. This chapter shall have 
no effect on employers who do not meet this definition; (6) "Drug"
 means any controlled substance subject to testing pursuant to drug 
testing regulations adopted by the United States department of 
transportation. A covered employer shall test an individual for all such
 drugs in accordance with this chapter. The commissioner of labor and 
workforce development may add additional drugs by rule in accordance 
with Â§ 50-9-111; (7) "Drug or 
alcohol rehabilitation program" means a service provider that provides 
confidential, timely and expert identification, assessment and 
resolution of employee drug or alcohol abuse; (8) "Drug
 test" or "test" means any chemical, biological or physical instrumental
 analysis administered by a laboratory authorized to do so pursuant to 
this chapter, for the purpose of determining the presence or absence of a
 drug or its metabolites pursuant to regulations governing drug testing 
adopted by the United States department of transportation or other 
recognized authority approved by rule by the commissioner of labor and 
workforce development; (9) "Employee" means any person who works for salary, wages or other remuneration for a covered employer; (10) "Employee
 assistance program" means an established program capable of providing 
expert assessment of employee personal concerns; confidential and timely
 identification services with regard to employee drug or alcohol abuse; 
referrals of employees for appropriate diagnosis, treatment and 
assistance; and follow-up services for employees who participate in the 
program or require monitoring after returning to work. If, in addition 
to those activities, an employee assistance program provides diagnostic 
and treatment services, these services shall in all cases be provided by
 the program; (11) "Employer" 
means a person or entity that employs a person and that is covered by 
the Workers' Compensation Law, compiled in chapter 6 of this title; (12) "Initial
 drug or alcohol test" means a procedure that qualifies as a "screening 
test" or "initial test" pursuant to regulations governing drug or 
alcohol testing adopted by the United States department of 
transportation or other recognized authority approved by rule by the 
administrator of the division of workers' compensation; (13) "Job
 applicant" means a person who has applied for a position with a covered
 employer and who has been offered employment conditioned upon 
successfully passing a drug or alcohol test, and may have begun work 
pending the results of the drug or alcohol test; (14) "Medical
 review officer" or "MRO" means a licensed physician, employed with or 
contracted with a covered employer, who has knowledge of substance abuse
 disorders, laboratory testing procedures and chain of custody 
collection procedures; who verifies positive, confirmed test results; 
and who has the necessary medical training to interpret and evaluate an 
employee's positive test result in relation to the employee's medical 
history or any other relevant biomedical information; (15) "Reasonable-suspicion
 drug testing" means drug or alcohol testing based on a belief that an 
employee is using or has used drugs or alcohol in violation of the 
covered employer's policy drawn from specific objective and articulable 
facts and reasonable inferences drawn from those facts in light of 
experience. Among other things, the facts and inferences may be based 
upon: (A) Observable phenomena
 while at work, such as direct observation of drug or alcohol use or of 
the physical symptoms or manifestations of being under the influence of a
 drug or alcohol; (B) Abnormal conduct or erratic behavior while at work or a significant deterioration in work performance; (C) A report of drug or alcohol use, provided by a reliable and credible source; (D) Evidence that an individual has tampered with a drug or alcohol test during employment with the current covered employer; (E) Information that an employee has caused, contributed to or been involved in an accident while at work; or (F) Evidence
 that an employee has used, possessed, sold, solicited or transferred 
drugs or used alcohol while working or while on the covered employer's 
premises or while operating the covered employer's vehicle, machinery or
 equipment; (16) (A) "Safety-sensitive
 position" means a position involving a safety-sensitive function 
pursuant to regulations governing drug or alcohol testing adopted by the
 United States department of transportation. For drug-free workplaces, 
the commissioner is authorized, with the approval of the advisory 
council on workers' compensation, to promulgate rules expanding the 
scope of safety-sensitive position to cases where impairment may present
 a clear and present risk to co-workers or other persons; (B) "Safety-sensitive
 position" means, with respect to any employer, a position in which a 
drug or alcohol impairment constitutes an immediate and direct threat to
 public health or safety, such as a position that requires the employee 
to carry a firearm, perform life-threatening procedures, work with 
confidential information or documents pertaining to criminal 
investigations or work with controlled substances; or a position in 
which a momentary lapse in attention could result in injury or death to 
another person; and (17) "Specimen"
 means tissue, fluid or a product of the human body capable of revealing
 the presence of alcohol or drugs or their metabolites.HISTORY: Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 50; 1997, ch. 533, Â§ 19-24; 1998, ch. 1024, Â§ 5, 6; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2014, ch. 903, Â§ 11.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 9. Drug Free Workplace--->50-9-104. Testing for drugs or alcohol authorized - Conditions for testing -- Effect of failure to comply.
===================================================================



 

(a) A covered employer may test a job applicant for alcohol or for any drug described in Â§ 50-9-103; provided, that, for public employees, the testing shall be limited to the extent permitted by the Tennessee and federal constitutions. A covered employer may test an employee for any drug defined in Â§ 50-9-103, and at any time set out in Â§ 50-9-106. An employee who is not in a safety-sensitive position, as defined in Â§ 50-9-103, may be tested for alcohol only when the test is based upon reasonable suspicion, as defined in Â§ 50-9-103. An employee in a safety-sensitive position may be tested for alcohol use at any occasion described in Â§ 50-9-106(a)(2)-(5), inclusive. In order to qualify as having established a drug-free workplace program that affords a covered employer the ability to qualify for the discounts provided under Â§ 50-6-418 and deny workers' compensation medical and indemnity benefits and shift the burden of proof under Â§ 50-6-110(c), all drug or alcohol testing conducted by covered employers shall be in conformity with the standards and procedures established in this chapter and all applicable rules adopted pursuant to this chapter. If a covered employer fails to maintain a drug-free workplace program in accordance with the standards and procedures established in this section and in applicable rules, the covered employer shall not be eligible for:

 (1) Discounts under Â§ 50-6-418;

 (2) A shift in the burden of proof pursuant to Â§ 50-6-110(c); or

 (3) Denial of workers' compensation medical and indemnity benefits pursuant to this chapter. All covered employers qualifying for and receiving discounts provided under Â§ 50-6-418 must be reported annually by the insurer to the division.

(b) The commissioner of labor and workforce development shall adopt a form pursuant to the commissioner's rulemaking authority, which form shall be used by the employer to certify compliance with this chapter. Substantial compliance in completing and filing the form with the commissioner shall create a rebuttable presumption that the employer has established a drug-free workplace program and is entitled to the protection and benefit of this chapter. Prior to granting any premium credit to an employer pursuant to Â§ 50-6-418, all insurers and self-insured pools under chapter 6, part 4 of this title, shall obtain the form from the employer. No less frequently than monthly, insurers and self-insured pools shall submit the forms to the department of labor and workforce development. Any other employer desiring to establish a drug-free workplace shall file the form with the department.

(c) It is intended that any employer required to test its employees pursuant to the requirements of any federal statute or regulation shall be deemed to be in conformity with this section as to the employees it is required to test by those standards and procedures designated in that federal statute or regulation. All other employees of the employer shall be subject to testing as provided in this chapter in order for the employer to qualify as having a drug-free workplace program.




[Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 50; 1997, ch. 533, Â§ 25, 26; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41.]




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 9. Drug Free Workplace--->50-9-105. Written policy statement.
===================================================================



 

 
Title 50 Employer And Employee Chapter 9 Drug-free Workplace Programs
50-9-105. Written policy statement.(a) One (1) time only, prior to testing, a covered employer shall give all employees and job applicants for employment a written policy statement that contains:

 (1) A general statement of the covered employer's policy on employee drug or alcohol use, which must identify:

 (A) The types of drug or alcohol testing an employee or job applicant may be required to submit to, including reasonable-suspicion drug or alcohol testing or drug or alcohol testing conducted on any other basis; and

 (B) The actions the covered employer may take against an employee or job applicant on the basis of a positive confirmed drug or alcohol test result;

 (2) A statement advising the employee or job applicant of the existence of this section;

 (3) A general statement concerning confidentiality;

 (4) Procedures for employees and job applicants to confidentially report to a medical review officer the use of prescription or nonprescription medications to a medical review officer after being tested, but only if the testing process has revealed a positive result for the presence of alcohol or drug use;

 (5) The consequences of refusing to submit to a drug or alcohol test;

 (6) A representative sampling of names, addresses and telephone numbers of employee assistance programs and local drug or alcohol rehabilitation programs;

 (7) A statement that an employee or job applicant who receives a positive confirmed test result may contest or explain the result to the medical review officer within five (5) working days after receiving written notification of the test result; that if an employee's or job applicant's explanation or challenge is unsatisfactory to the medical review officer, the medical review officer shall report a positive test result back to the covered employer; and that a person may contest the drug or alcohol test result pursuant to rules adopted by the department of labor and workforce development;

 (8) A statement informing the employee or job applicant of the employee's responsibility to notify the laboratory of any administrative or civil action brought pursuant to this section;

 (9) A list of all drug classes for which the employer may test;

 (10) A statement regarding any applicable collective bargaining agreement or contract and any right to appeal to the applicable court;

 (11) A statement notifying employees and job applicants of their right to consult with a medical review officer for technical information regarding prescription or nonprescription medication; and

 (12) A statement complying with the requirements for notice under Â§ 50-9-101(b).

(b) A covered employer shall ensure that at least sixty (60) days elapse between a general one-time notice to all employees that a drug-free workplace program is being implemented and the effective date of the program. The notice shall also indicate that on the effective date of the program that Â§ 50-6-110(c) will apply to that employer.

(c) A covered employer shall include notice of drug and alcohol testing on vacancy announcements for positions for which drug or alcohol testing is required. A notice of the covered employer's drug and alcohol testing policy must also be posted in an appropriate and conspicuous location on the covered employer's premises, and copies of the policy must be made available for inspection by the employees or job applicants of the covered employer during regular business hours in the covered employer's personnel office or other suitable locations.

(d) Subject to any applicable provisions of a collective bargaining agreement or any applicable labor law, a covered employer may rescind its coverage under this chapter by posting a written and dated notice in an appropriate and conspicuous location on its premises. The notice shall state that the policy will no longer be conducted pursuant to this chapter. The employer shall also provide sixty (60) days' written notice to the employer's workers' compensation insurer of the rescission. As to employees and job applicants, the recession shall become effective no earlier than sixty (60) days after the date of the posted notice.

(e) The commissioner of labor and workforce development shall develop a model notice and policy for drug-free workplace programs.

(f) Any notice required by this section shall inform minors who are tested that the minor's parents or guardians will be notified of the results of tests conducted pursuant to this chapter.



[Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 50; 1997, ch. 533, Â§ 27-33; 1998, ch. 1024, Â§ 7; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2001, ch. 160, Â§ 2.]




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 9. Drug Free Workplace--->50-9-106. Required drug or alcohol tests.
===================================================================



 



 (1) Job Applicant Drug and Alcohol Testing. A covered employer must, after a conditional offer of employment, require job applicants to submit to a drug test and may use a refusal to submit to a drug test or a positive confirmed drug test as a basis for refusing to hire a job applicant. An employer may, but is not required to, test job applicants, after a conditional offer of employment, for alcohol. Limited testing of applicants, only if it is based on a reasonable classification basis, is permissible in accordance with division rule;

 (2) Reasonable-Suspicion Drug and Alcohol Testing. A covered employer must require an employee to submit to reasonable-suspicion drug or alcohol testing. A written record shall be made of the observations leading to a controlled substances reasonable suspicion test within twenty-four (24) hours of the observed behavior or before the results of the test are released, whichever is earlier. A copy of this documentation shall be given to the employee upon request, and the original documentation shall be kept confidential by the covered employer pursuant to Â§ 50-9-109 and shall be retained by the covered employer for at least one (1) year;

 (3) Routine Fitness-For-Duty Drug Testing. 

 (A) A covered employer shall require an employee to undergo drug or alcohol testing if, as a part of the employer's written policy, the test is conducted as a routine part of a routinely scheduled employee fitness-for-duty medical examination, or is scheduled routinely for all members of an employment classification or group; provided, that a public employer may require scheduled, periodic testing only of employees who:

 (i) Are police or peace officers;

 (ii) Have drug interdiction responsibilities;

 (iii) Are authorized to carry firearms;

 (iv) Are engaged in activities that directly affect the safety of others;

 (v) Work in direct contact with inmates in the custody of the department of correction; or

 (vi) Work in direct contact with minors who have been adjudicated delinquent or who are in need of supervision in the custody of the department of children's services.

 (B) This subdivision (a)(3) does not require a drug or alcohol test if a covered employer's personnel policy on July 1, 1998, does not include drug or alcohol testing as part of a routine fitness-for-duty medical examination. The test shall be conducted in a nondiscriminatory manner. Routine fitness-for-duty drug or alcohol testing of employees does not apply to volunteer employee health screenings, employee wellness programs, programs mandated by governmental agencies, or medical surveillance procedures that involve limited examinations targeted to a particular body part or function.

 (4) Follow-Up Drug Testing. If the employee in the course of employment enters an employee assistance program for drug-related or alcohol-related problems, or a drug or alcohol rehabilitation program, the covered employer must require the employee to submit to a drug and alcohol test, as appropriate, as a follow-up to the program, unless the employee voluntarily entered the program. In those cases, the covered employer has the option to not require follow-up testing. If follow-up testing is required, it must be conducted at least once a year for a two-year period after completion of the program. Advance notice of a follow-up testing date must not be given to the employee to be tested; and

 (5) Post-Accident Testing. After an accident that results in an injury, as defined in chapter 3 of this title, and the rules promulgated under chapter 3 of this title, the covered employer shall require the employee to submit to a drug or alcohol test in accordance with this chapter.

(b) This chapter does not preclude an employer from conducting any lawful testing of employees for drugs or alcohol that is in addition to the minimum testing required under this chapter.




[Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 50; 1997, ch. 533, Â§ 34-39; 1998, ch. 1024, Â§ 8-10.]




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 9. Drug Free Workplace--->50-9-107.  Testing subject to department of transportation procedures -- Verification -- Chain of custody procedures -- Costs -- Discrimination on grounds of voluntary treatment prohibited. 
===================================================================



 

		Title 50 Employer And Employee 
(a) All specimen collection and testing for drugs and alcohol under this chapter shall be performed in accordance with the procedures provided for by the United States department of transportation rules for workplace drug and alcohol testing compiled at 49 CFR part 40.
(b) A covered employer may not discharge, discipline, refuse to hire, discriminate against or request or require rehabilitation of an employee or job applicant on the sole basis of a positive test result that has not been verified by a confirmation test and by a medical review officer.
(c) A covered employer that performs drug testing or specimen collection shall use chain-of-custody procedures established by regulations of the United States department of transportation or such other recognized authority approved by rule by the commissioner of labor and workforce development governing drug testing.
(d) A covered employer shall pay the cost of all drug and alcohol tests, initial and confirmation, that the covered employer requires of employees. An employee or job applicant shall pay the costs of any additional drug or alcohol tests not required by the covered employer.
(e) A covered employer shall not discharge, discipline or discriminate against an employee solely upon the employee's voluntarily seeking treatment, while under the employ of the covered employer, for a drug-related or alcohol-related problem if the employee has not previously tested positive for drug or alcohol use, entered an employee assistance program for drug-related or alcohol-related problems or entered a drug or alcohol rehabilitation program. Unless otherwise provided by a collective bargaining agreement, a covered employer may select the employee assistance program or drug or alcohol rehabilitation program if the covered employer pays the cost of the employee's participation in the program. However, nothing in this chapter is intended to require any employer to permit or provide a rehabilitation program.
(f) If drug or alcohol testing is conducted based on reasonable suspicion, the covered employer shall promptly detail in writing the circumstances that formed the basis of the determination that reasonable suspicion existed to warrant the testing. A copy of this documentation shall be given to the employee upon request and the original documentation shall be kept confidential by the covered employer pursuant to Â§ 50-9-109, and shall be retained by the covered employer for at least one (1) year.

[Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 50; 1997, ch. 533, Â§ 40-43; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41.]




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 9. Drug Free Workplace--->50-9-108. Drug or alcohol use not a disability -- Drug or alcohol use "cause" for firing or failure to hire -- 
===================================================================



 

		Title 50 Employer And Employee Chapter 9 Drug-free Workplace Programs50-9-108. Drug or alcohol use not a disability -- Drug or alcohol 
use "cause" for firing or failure to hire -- Miscellaneous provisions.  (a) An
 employee or job applicant whose drug or alcohol test result is 
confirmed as positive in accordance with this section shall not, by 
virtue of the result alone, be deemed to have a disability as defined 
under federal, state or local disability discrimination laws.(b) A
 covered employer who discharges or disciplines an employee or refuses 
to hire a job applicant in compliance with this section is considered to
 have discharged, disciplined or refused to hire for cause.(c) No
 physician-patient relationship is created between an employee or job 
applicant and a covered employer or any person performing or evaluating a
 drug or alcohol test, solely by the establishment, implementation or 
administration of a drug or alcohol testing program. This section in no 
way relieves the person performing the test from responsibility for acts
 of negligence in performing the tests.(d) Nothing
 in this section shall be construed to prevent a covered employer from 
establishing reasonable work rules related to employee possession, use, 
sale or solicitation of drugs or alcohol, including convictions for 
offenses relating to drugs or alcohol, and taking action based upon a 
violation of any of those rules.(e) This
 section does not operate retroactively, and does not abrogate the right
 of an employer under state law to lawfully conduct drug or alcohol 
tests, or implement lawful employee drug-testing programs. This chapter 
shall not prohibit an employer from conducting any drug or alcohol 
testing of employees that is otherwise permitted by law.(f) If
 an employee or job applicant refuses to submit to a drug or alcohol 
test, the covered employer is not barred from discharging or 
disciplining the employee or from refusing to hire the job applicant; 
however, this subsection (f) does not abrogate the rights and remedies 
of the employee or job applicant as otherwise provided in this section.(g) This
 section does not prohibit an employer from conducting medical screening
 or other tests required, permitted or not disallowed by any statute, 
rule or regulation for the purpose of monitoring exposure of employees 
to toxic or other unhealthy substances in the workplace or in the 
performance of job responsibilities. The screening or testing is limited
 to the specific substances expressly identified in the applicable 
statute, rule or regulation, unless prior written consent of the 
employee is obtained for other tests. The screening or testing need not 
be in compliance with the rules adopted by the department of labor and 
workforce development and department of health. If applicable, the drug 
or alcohol testing must be specified in a collective bargaining 
agreement as negotiated by the appropriate certified bargaining agent 
before the testing is implemented.(h) No
 cause of action shall arise in favor of any person based upon the 
failure of an employer to establish a program or policy for drug or 
alcohol testing.HISTORY: Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 50; 1997, ch. 533, Â§ 44; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2011, ch. 47, Â§ 53.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 9. Drug Free Workplace--->50-9-109. Confidentiality of records - Parental notification.
===================================================================



 

		Title 50 Employer And Employee Chapter 9 Drug-free Workplace Programs50-9-109. Confidentiality of records -- Parental notification.  (a) All
 information, interviews, reports, statements, memoranda and drug or 
alcohol test results, written or otherwise, received by the covered 
employer through a drug or alcohol testing program are confidential 
communications and may not be used or received in evidence, obtained in 
discovery or disclosed in any public or private proceedings, except in 
accordance with this section or in determining compensability under this
 chapter.(b) Covered employers, 
laboratories, medical review officers, employee assistance programs, 
drug or alcohol rehabilitation programs and their agents who receive or 
have access to information concerning drug or alcohol test results shall
 keep all information confidential. Release of the information under any
 other circumstance is authorized solely pursuant to a written consent 
form signed voluntarily by the person tested, unless the release is 
compelled by a hearing officer or a court of competent jurisdiction 
pursuant to an appeal taken under this section, relevant to a legal 
claim asserted by the employee or is deemed appropriate by a 
professional or occupational licensing board in a related disciplinary 
proceeding. The consent form must contain, at a minimum: (1) The name of the person who is authorized to obtain the information; (2) The purpose of the disclosure; (3) The precise information to be disclosed; (4) The duration of the consent; and (5) The signature of the person authorizing release of the information.(c) Information
 on drug or alcohol test results for tests administered pursuant to this
 chapter shall not be released or used in any criminal proceeding 
against the employee or job applicant. Information released contrary to 
this section is inadmissible as evidence in the criminal proceeding.(d) This
 section does not prohibit a covered employer, agent of the employer or 
laboratory conducting a drug or alcohol test from having access to 
employee drug or alcohol test information or using the information when 
consulting with legal counsel in connection with actions brought under 
or related to this section, or when the information is relevant to its 
defense in a civil or administrative matter. Neither is this section 
intended to prohibit disclosure among management as is reasonably 
necessary for making disciplinary decisions relating to violations of 
drug or alcohol standards of conduct adopted by an employer.(e) A
 covered employer shall notify the parents or legal guardians of a minor
 of the results of any drug or alcohol testing program conducted 
pursuant to this chapter. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this 
section, an employer is authorized to disclose the results to parents 
and guardians and an employer shall not be liable for any disclosure 
permitted by this subsection (e).HISTORY: Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 50; 1997, ch. 533, Â§ 45; 2001, ch. 160, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 9. Drug Free Workplace--->50-9-110. Prerequisites for processing test specimens - Licensure of testing laboratory. 
===================================================================



 

		Title 50 Employer And Employee Chapter 9 Drug-free Workplace Programs50-9-110. Prerequisites for processing test specimens -- Licensure of testing laboratory.  (a) A laboratory may not analyze initial or confirmation test specimens unless: (1) The
 laboratory is licensed and approved by the department of health, using 
criteria established by the United States department of health and human
 services as guidelines for modeling the state drug-free testing program
 pursuant to this section, or the laboratory is certified by the United 
States department of health and human services, the College of American 
Pathologists or other recognized authority approved by rule by the 
commissioner of labor and workforce development; and (2) The
 laboratory complies with the procedures established by the United 
States department of transportation for a workplace drug test program or
 other recognized authority approved by the commissioner of labor and 
workforce development.(b) Confirmation
 tests may only be conducted by a laboratory that meets the requirements
 of subdivisions (a)(1) and (2) and is certified by either the Substance
 Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration or the College of 
American Pathologists -- Forensic Urine Testing Programs.HISTORY: Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 50; 1997, ch. 533, Â§ 46; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 9. Drug Free Workplace--->50-9-111. Rules and regulations - Guidelines for state testing program
===================================================================



 

50-9-111. Rules and regulations -- Guidelines for state testing program.  (a) The
 administrator of the division of workers' compensation is authorized to
 adopt rules, using the rules and guidelines adopted by the department 
of health and criteria established by the United States department of 
health and human services and the United States department of 
transportation as guidelines for modeling the state drug and alcohol 
testing program, concerning, but not limited to: (1) Standards for licensing drug and alcohol testing laboratories and suspension and revocation of the licenses; (2) Body specimens and minimum specimen amounts that are appropriate for drug or alcohol testing; (3) Methods
 of analysis and procedures to ensure reliable drug or alcohol testing 
results, including the use of breathalyzers and standards for initial 
tests and confirmation tests; (4) Minimum
 cut-off detection levels for alcohol, each drug or metabolites of the 
drug for the purposes of determining a positive test result; (5) Chain-of-custody procedures to ensure proper identification, labeling and handling of specimens tested; and (6) Retention, storage and transportation procedures to ensure reliable results on confirmation tests and retests.(b) The
 administrator of the division of workers' compensation is authorized to
 adopt relevant federal rules concerning drug and alcohol testing as a 
minimum standard for testing procedures and protections that the 
administrator may exceed. The rules shall be promulgated in accordance 
with the Uniform Administrative Procedures Act, compiled in title 4, 
chapter 5.(c) The administrator of 
the division of workers' compensation shall consider drug testing 
programs and laboratories operating as a part of the College of American
 Pathologists -- Forensic Urine Drug Testing Programs in issuing 
guidelines or promulgating rules relative to recognized authorities in 
drug testing.(d) The administrator 
is authorized to set education program requirements for drug-free 
workplaces by rules promulgated in accordance with the requirements of 
the Uniform Administrative Procedures Act. The requirements shall not be
 more stringent than the federal requirements for workplaces regulated 
by the United States department of transportation rules.HISTORY: Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 50; 1997, ch. 533, Â§ 7, 47, 48; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41; 2011, ch. 410, Â§ 10(f); 2014, ch. 903, Â§ 12.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 9. Drug Free Workplace--->50-9-112. Temporary employment agencies exempt from drug-free workplace requirements.
===================================================================



 

		Title 50 Employer And Employee Chapter 9 Drug-free Workplace Programs50-9-112. Temporary employment agencies exempt from drug-free workplace requirements.  A
 temporary employment agency shall not be required by rule, regulation 
or policy of the department of labor and workforce development to 
implement a drug-free workplace pursuant to this chapter.HISTORY: Acts 1998, ch. 1024, Â§ 18; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 41.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 9. Drug Free Workplace--->50-9-113. State and local government construction contracts.
===================================================================



 

		Title 50 Employer And Employee Chapter 9 Drug-free Workplace Programs50-9-113. State and local government construction contracts.  (a) Each
 employer with five (5) or more employees receiving pay who contracts 
with the state or any local government to provide construction services 
or who is awarded a contract to provide construction services or who 
provides construction services to the state or local government shall 
submit an affidavit stating that the employer has a drug-free workplace 
program that complies with this chapter, in effect at the time of the 
submission of a bid at least to the extent required of governmental 
entities. Any private employer that certifies compliance with the 
drug-free workplace program, only to the extent required by this 
section, shall not receive any reduction in workers' compensation 
premiums and shall not be entitled to any other benefit provided by 
compliance with the drug-free workplace program set forth in this 
chapter. Nothing in this section shall be construed to reduce or 
diminish the rights or privileges of any private employer who has a 
drug-free workplace program that fully complies with this chapter. For 
purposes of compliance with this section, any private employer shall 
obtain a certificate of compliance with the applicable portions of the 
Drug-free Workplace Act from the department of labor and workforce 
development. No local government or state governmental entity shall 
enter into any contract or award a contract for construction services 
with an employer who does not comply with this section.(b) If
 it is determined that an employer subject to this section has entered 
into a contract with a local government or state agency and the employer
 does not have a drug-free workplace pursuant to this section, the 
employer shall be prohibited from entering into another contract with 
any local government or state agency until the employer can prove 
compliance with the drug-free workplace program pursuant to this 
section. If the same employer again contracts with any local government 
or state agency and does not have a drug-free workplace program pursuant
 to this section, then the employer shall be prohibited from entering 
into another contract with any local government or state agency for not 
less than three (3) months from the date the violation was discovered 
and verified and shall be prohibited from entering into another contract
 until the employer complies with the drug-free workplace program 
pursuant to this section. If the same employer for a third time 
contracts with any local government or state agency and does not have a 
drug-free workplace program pursuant to this section, then the employer 
shall be prohibited from entering into another contract with any local 
government or state agency for not less than one (1) year from the date 
the violation was discovered and verified and shall be prohibited from 
entering into another contract until the employer complies with the 
drug-free workplace program pursuant to this section.(c) A
 written affidavit by the principal officer of a covered employer 
provided to a local government at the time the bid or contract is 
submitted stating that the employer is in compliance with this section 
shall absolve the local government of all further responsibility under 
this section and any liability arising from the employer's compliance or
 failure of compliance with this section.(d) For
 the purposes of this section, "employer" does not include any utility 
or unit of local government. "Employer" includes any private company or 
corporation.HISTORY: Acts 2000, ch. 918, Â§ 1, 2.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 50 - Employer And Employee--->Chapter 9. Drug Free Workplace--->50-9-114.  Information to be included within bid or procurement specifications for construction services -- Contesting a contract.
===================================================================



 

		Title 50 Employer And Employee Chapter 9 Drug-free Workplace Programs50-9-114. Information to be included within bid or procurement specifications for construction services -- Contesting a contract. (a) The
 state or any local government, including departments, divisions, or 
agencies thereof, shall include within any bid or procurement 
specifications for construction services the following information: (1) A
 statement as to whether the governmental entity issuing a construction 
service bid or other procurement specification operates a drug-free 
workplace program as certified under this chapter or operates any other 
programs that provide for testing of employees for workplace use of 
drugs or alcohol; (2) If 
operating such a program, a statement that describes the government 
entity's drug-free workplace or alcohol and drug testing program; and (3) A
 statement that all bidders or proposals for construction services are 
required to submit an affidavit as part of their bid, that attests that 
the bidder operates a drug-free workplace program or other drug or 
alcohol testing program with requirements at least as stringent as that 
of the program operated by the governmental entity.(b) Unless
 suit is filed in chancery court, employers shall have seven (7) 
calendar days to contest a contract entered into by employers subject to
 this section with a local government or state government. Employers 
that do not contest the contracts within seven (7) calendar days by 
filing suit in chancery court shall waive their rights to challenge the 
contracts for violating this section. The contracts shall be contested 
in chancery court in the county where the contract was entered. The 
trial of the alleged violation of this section shall be expedited by 
giving it priority over all cases on the trial docket, except workers' 
compensation cases.HISTORY: Acts 2002, ch. 693, Â§ 1.




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 56 - Insurance--->Chapter 4. Fees And Taxes--->56-4-206. Tax on workers' compensation insurers.
===================================================================



 

 56-4-206. Tax on workers' compensation insurers. 
Every insurance company writing workers' compensation insuranceunder the Workers' Compensation Law, compiled in title 50, chapter 6,shall be subject to and pay a tax of four percent (4%) on grosspremiums collected for workers' compensation insurance, plus asurcharge of four tenths of one percent (0.4%) on gross premiums, thesurcharge to be earmarked for the administration of the TennesseeOccupational Safety and Health Act, compiled in title 50, chapter 3.This tax shall be paid at the same time and in the same manner as thetax levied upon insurance companies by Â§ 56-4-205; provided, that thesurcharge of four tenths of one percent (0.4%) on the tax on workers'compensation insurance premiums levied by this section does not applyto any employer who employs ten (10) or fewer employees, unless theemployer is in the business of construction or manufacturing. [Acts 1945, ch. 3, Â§ 2; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 1248.42 (Williams, Â§1248.170); T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 56-409; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch.534, Â§ 1; Acts 1981, ch. 396, Â§ 1, 4.]




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 56 - Insurance--->Chapter 4. Fees And Taxes--->56-4-207. Tax on self-insurers under compensation law.
===================================================================



 

56-4-207. Tax on self-insurers under compensation law. 
(a) If any employer covered by the Workers' Compensation Law, compiled in title 50, chapter 6, carries its own insurance as provided by that chapter, the employer shall pay to the commissioner four percent (4%) on the premium that the employer would be required to pay if the employer carried the full coverage insurance called for with licensed insurance companies; provided, that the tax so paid by any employer shall in no instance be less than five dollars ($5.00), and a surcharge of four tenths of one percent (0.4%) on the premium the employer would have been required to pay, the surcharge to be earmarked for the administration of the Tennessee Occupational Safety and Health Act, compiled in title 50, chapter 3. The tax shall be paid by the self-insurers to the commissioner on or before June 30 of each year. Any company or corporation electing to operate as a self-insurer and having been duly qualified as such subsequent to June 30 of any year shall pay the tax based on the estimated payroll for the balance of the year when the permit is issued; provided, that the surcharge of four tenths of one percent (0.4%) on the tax on workers' compensation insurance premiums levied by this section shall not apply to any employer who employs ten (10) or fewer employees, unless the employer is in the business of construction or manufacturing.

(b) This section shall not apply to county or municipal governments.




[Acts 1945, ch. 3, Â§ 2; C. Supp. 1950, Â§ 1248.42 (Williams, Â§ 1248.170); impl. am. Acts 1971, ch. 137, Â§ 2; T.C.A. (orig. ed.), Â§ 56-410; impl. am. Acts 1980, ch. 534, Â§ 1; Acts 1981, ch. 396, Â§ 2, 4; 1984, ch. 962, Â§ 1; 1985, ch. 354, Â§ 1.]




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 56 - Insurance--->Chapter 6. Agents, Solicitors and Administrators - Part 7 Health Care Service Utilization Review Act--->56-6-701.  Short title.
===================================================================



 




56-6-701. Short title. This part shall be known and may be cited as the "Health Care Service Utilization Review Act."HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 812, Â§ 2. 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 56 - Insurance--->Chapter 6. Agents, Solicitors and Administrators - Part 7 Health Care Service Utilization Review Act--->56-6-702.  Purpose.
===================================================================



 




56-6-702. Purpose. The purpose of this part is to: (1) Promote the delivery of quality health care in a cost-effective manner; (2) Assure that utilization review agents adhere to reasonable standards for conducting utilization review; (3) Foster greater coordination and cooperation between health care providers and utilization review agents; (4) Improve communications and knowledge of benefit plan requirements among all parties concerned before expenses are incurred; and (5) Ensure
 that utilization review agents and procedures maintain and safeguard 
the confidentiality of all health-related records, especially mental 
health and chemical dependency disorders, in accordance with applicable 
laws and requirements of nationally recognized review accreditation 
bodies such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act 
(HIPAA) and the utilization review accreditation commission (URAC).HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 812, Â§ 3; 2002, ch. 799, Â§ 1. 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 56 - Insurance--->Chapter 6. Agents, Solicitors and Administrators - Part 7 Health Care Service Utilization Review Act--->56-6-703.  Part definitions. [Effective until January 15, 2015. See the version effective on January 15, 2015.]
===================================================================



 




First of 2 versions of this section56-6-703. Part definitions. [Effective until January 15, 2015. See the version effective on January 15, 2015.] As used in this part, unless the context otherwise requires: (1) "Commissioner" means the commissioner of commerce and insurance; (2) "Enrollee"
 means an individual who has contracted for or who participates in 
coverage under an insurance policy, a health maintenance organization 
contract, a health service corporation contract, an employee welfare 
benefit plan, a hospital or medical services plan, or any other benefit 
program providing payment, reimbursement, or indemnification for health 
care costs for the individual or the individual's eligible dependents; (3) "Provider
 of record" means the physician or other licensed practitioner 
identified to the utilization review agent as having primary 
responsibility for the care, treatment, and services rendered to an 
individual; (4) (A) "Utilization
 review" means a system for prospective and concurrent review of the 
necessity and appropriateness in the allocation of health care resources
 and services given or proposed to be given to an individual within this
 state; (B) "Utilization review" does not include elective requests for clarification of coverage; and (5) "Utilization review agent" means any person or entity, including the state, performing utilization review, except: (A) An agency of the federal government; (B) An
 agent acting on behalf of the federal government, but only to the 
extent that the agent is providing services to the federal government; (C) A hospital's internal quality assurance program; (D) An employee of a utilization review agent; or (E) Health
 maintenance organizations licensed and regulated by the commissioner, 
but only to the extent of providing utilization review to their own 
members.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 812, Â§ 4.   







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 56 - Insurance--->Chapter 6. Agents, Solicitors and Administrators - Part 7 Health Care Service Utilization Review Act--->56-6-703.  Part definitions. [Effective on January 15, 2015. See the version effective until January 15, 2015.]
===================================================================



 




Second of 2 versions of this section56-6-703. Part definitions. [Effective on January 15, 2015. See the version effective until January 15, 2015.] As used in this part, unless the context otherwise requires: (1) "Adverse determination" has the same meaning as defined in Â§ 56-61-102; (2) "Clinical
 criteria" means the written policies, screening procedures, decision 
rules, decision abstracts, clinical protocols, practice guidelines, and 
medical protocols used by the utilization review agent to determine the 
necessity and appropriateness of health care services; (3) "Commissioner" means the commissioner of commerce and insurance; (4) "Enrollee"
 means an individual who has contracted for or who participates in 
coverage under an insurance policy, a health maintenance organization 
contract, a health service corporation contract, an employee welfare 
benefit plan, a hospital or medical services plan, or any other benefit 
program providing payment, reimbursement, or indemnification for health 
care costs for the individual or the individual's eligible dependents; (5) "Final adverse determination" has the same meaning as defined in Â§ 56-61-102; (6) "Health
 care service" means health care procedures, treatments, or services 
provided by a facility licensed in this state or provided by a doctor of
 medicine, a doctor of osteopathy, or a health care professional 
licensed in this state; (7) "Medical necessity" has the same meaning as defined in Â§ 56-61-102; (8) "Preauthorization"
 means the process by which the utilization review agent determines the 
medical necessity of otherwise covered health care services prior to the
 rendering of such health care services including, but not limited to, 
preadmission review, pretreatment review, utilization, and case 
management; (9) "Provider of 
record" means the physician or other licensed practitioner identified to
 the utilization review agent as having primary responsibility for the 
care, treatment, and services rendered to an individual; (10) (A) "Utilization
 review" means a system for prospective and concurrent review of the 
necessity and appropriateness in the allocation of health care resources
 and services given or proposed to be given to an individual within this
 state; (B) "Utilization review" does not include elective requests for clarification of coverage; and (11) "Utilization review agent" means any person or entity, including the state, performing utilization review, except: (A) An agency of the federal government; (B) An
 agent acting on behalf of the federal government, but only to the 
extent that the agent is providing services to the federal government; (C) A hospital's internal quality assurance program; (D) An employee of a utilization review agent; or (E) Health
 maintenance organizations licensed and regulated by the commissioner, 
but only to the extent of providing utilization review to their own 
members.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 812, Â§ 4; 2014, ch. 731, Â§ 1. 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 56 - Insurance--->Chapter 6. Agents, Solicitors and Administrators - Part 7 Health Care Service Utilization Review Act--->56-6-704.  Utilization review agents.
===================================================================



 




56-6-704. Utilization review agents. (a) Utilization
 review agents shall adhere to the minimum standards set forth in Â§ 
56-6-705. Utilization review programs for the mental health and chemical
 dependency care must comply with the most recent requirements of 
nationally recognized utilization review accrediting bodies, i.e., the 
utilization review accreditation commission (URAC) and the national 
committee for quality assurance (NCQA), if the agent is accredited and 
with all final security and privacy rules on protected health 
information as defined in the Health Insurance Portability and 
Accountability Act (HIPAA). However, nothing in this part shall be 
construed to require compliance with the final security and privacy 
rules of HIPAA prior to the compliance dates set by the secretary of 
health and human services.(b) (1) A
 utilization review agent may not conduct utilization review in this 
state unless the utilization review agent has certified to the 
commissioner in writing that the agent is in compliance with Â§ 56-6-705.
 Certification shall be made annually on or before July 1 of each 
calendar year. In addition, a utilization review agent shall file the 
following information: (A) The name, address, telephone number, and normal business hours of the utilization review agent; (B) The name and telephone number of a person for the commissioner to contact; (C) A description of the appeal procedures for utilization review determinations; and (D) Utilization
 review programs for mental health and chemical dependency care shall 
make available to a provider submitting patient utilization review 
information a description of utilization review standards and procedures
 applicable to that provider. (2) Any
 material changes in the information filed in accordance with this 
section shall be filed with the commissioner within thirty (30) days of 
the change.(c) Upon filing the 
certification, each utilization review agent shall pay an annual fee in 
the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000) to the department. The 
commissioner shall exempt from payment of the annual fee any utilization
 review agent that has received accreditation by URAC or NCQA. All fees 
paid to the department under this part shall be held by the commissioner
 as expendable receipts for the purpose of administering this part.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 812, Â§ 5; 1993, ch. 482, Â§ 1; 2002, ch. 799, Â§ 2, 3; 2009, ch. 611, Â§ 1, 2.   







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 56 - Insurance--->Chapter 6. Agents, Solicitors and Administrators - Part 7 Health Care Service Utilization Review Act--->56-6-705.  Utilization review agents -- Minimum standards. [Effective until January 15, 2015. See the version effective on January 15, 2015.]
===================================================================



 




56-6-705. Utilization review 
agents -- Minimum standards. [Effective until January 15, 2015. See the 
version effective on January 15, 2015.] (a) All utilization review agents shall meet the following minimum standards: (1) Notification
 of a determination by the utilization review agent shall be mailed or 
otherwise communicated to the provider of record or the enrollee or 
other appropriate individual within two (2) business days of the receipt
 of the request for determination and the receipt of all information 
necessary to complete the review; (2) Any
 determination by a utilization review agent as to the necessity or 
appropriateness of an admission, service, or procedure shall be reviewed
 by a physician or determined in accordance with standards or guidelines
 approved by a physician; (3) Any
 notification of determination not to certify an admission or service or
 procedure must include the principal reason for the determination and 
the procedures to initiate an appeal of the determination; (4) Utilization
 review agents shall maintain and make available a written description 
of the appeal procedure by which the enrollee or the provider of record 
may seek review of a determination by the utilization review agent. The 
appeal procedure shall provide for the following: (A) On
 appeal, all determinations not to certify an admission, service, or 
procedure as being necessary or appropriate shall be made by a physician
 in the same or a similar general specialty as typically manages the 
medical condition, procedure or treatment under discussion as mutually 
deemed appropriate. For mental health and chemical dependency care, the 
person performing the utilization review in these appeal determinations 
must be both licensed at the independent practice level and in an 
appropriate mental health or chemical dependency discipline like that of
 the provider seeking authorization for the care denied; (B) Utilization
 review agents shall complete the adjudication of appeals of 
determinations not to certify admissions, services, and procedures no 
later than thirty (30) days from the date the appeal is filed and the 
receipt of all information necessary to complete the appeal; and (C) When
 an initial determination not to certify a health care service is made 
prior to or during an ongoing service requiring review, and the 
attending physician believes that the determination warrants immediate 
appeal, the attending physician shall have an opportunity to appeal that
 determination over the telephone on an expedited basis. A 
representative of a hospital or other health care provider or a 
representative of the enrollee or covered patient may assist in an 
appeal. Utilization review agents shall complete the adjudication on an 
expedited basis. Utilization review agents shall complete the 
adjudication of expedited appeals within forty-eight (48) hours of the 
date the appeal is filed and the receipt of all information necessary to
 complete the appeal. Expedited appeals which do not resolve a 
difference of opinion may be resubmitted through the standard appeal 
process; (5) Utilization review 
agents shall make staff available by toll-free telephone at least forty 
(40) hours per week during normal business hours; (6) Utilization
 review agents shall have a telephone system capable of accepting or 
recording incoming telephone calls during other than normal business 
hours and shall respond to these calls within two (2) working days; (7) Utilization review agents shall comply with all applicable laws to protect the confidentiality of individual medical records; (8) Physicians
 or psychologists making utilization review determinations shall have 
current licenses from a state licensing agency in the United States; (9) Utilization
 review agents shall allow a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours after an 
emergency admission, service, or procedure for an enrollee or the 
enrollee's representative to notify the utilization review agent and 
request certification or continuing treatment for that condition; and (10) (A) For
 outpatient mental health and chemical dependency care, the patient must
 register pursuant to the requirements of the policy or contract. After 
registration, the patient shall be approved for at least twelve (12) 
visits to a particular provider, except as otherwise provided in this 
section; (B) Initial 
utilization review for such outpatient mental health or chemical 
dependency patients shall be limited to no more than a two (2) page form
 to be submitted via facsimile or internet and pursuant to state and 
federal privacy rules, security rules, and any final rules issued 
pursuant to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act 
(HIPAA). After November 1, 2005, or sooner if required by HIPAA, the 
form shall be restricted to a single page. After November 1, 2005, the 
provider may no longer fax the form but is required to use the internet 
to submit necessary information if the utilization review agent so 
requires. In the event that the utilization review agent elects to 
restrict the submissions to the internet, provisions must be made to fax
 the information in the event of computer malfunction; (C) After
 the initial utilization review, additional information or follow-up 
utilization review for outpatient mental health or chemical dependency 
patients shall be limited to no more than eighteen percent (18%) of the 
total number of outpatient mental health and chemical dependency 
patients' reviews performed by the utilization review agent for the 
previous calendar year adjusted for the difference of covered lives in 
this state for the present calendar year, or as otherwise required by 
the Utilization Review Accreditation Commission (URAC) or the National 
Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). The eighteen-percent limit shall
 not apply to utilization review applicable to at risk populations, 
patients seen more than two (2) visits a week and patients for which 
substance abuse is reported or suspected. Calls from reviews to 
providers for appointment follow-up calls or for the credentialing 
process shall also not be subject to the eighteen-percent limit; (D) After
 utilization review as provided in this subdivision (a)(10), patients 
shall be authorized for at least twelve (12) additional visits or as 
otherwise recommended by the treatment plan; (E) Nothing
 in this part shall be construed to require compliance with the final 
security and privacy rules of HIPAA prior to the compliance dates set by
 the secretary of health and human services; and (F) Nothing
 in this part shall affect the policy or contract benefits nor shall it 
affect the Mental Health Parity Act, compiled in Â§ 56-7-2601 and 
56-7-2360.(b) With the exception of
 those standards contained in subdivision (a)(10), the commissioner 
shall exempt from the standards of this section any utilization review 
agent who has received accreditation by URAC or NCQA.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 812, Â§ 6; 2002, ch. 799, Â§ 4, 5; 2007, ch. 287, Â§ 1, 2; 2008, ch. 812, Â§ 1; 2011, ch. 243, Â§ 1, 2.   







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 56 - Insurance--->Chapter 6. Agents, Solicitors and Administrators - Part 7 Health Care Service Utilization Review Act--->56-6-705.  Utilization review agents -- Minimum standards. [Effective on January 15, 2015. See the version effective until January 15, 2015.]
===================================================================



 




Second of 2 versions of this section56-6-705. Utilization
 review agents -- Minimum standards. [Effective on January 15, 2015. See
 the version effective until January 15, 2015.] (a) All utilization review agents shall meet the following minimum standards: (1) Notification
 of a determination by the utilization review agent shall be mailed or 
otherwise communicated to the provider of record or the enrollee or 
other appropriate individual within two (2) business days of the receipt
 of the request for determination and the receipt of all information 
necessary to complete the review; (2) (A) Any
 restrictions, preauthorizations, adverse determinations, or final 
adverse determinations that a utilization review agent places on the 
preauthorization of health care services shall be based on the medical 
necessity or appropriateness of those services and shall be based on 
written clinical criteria; (B) Utilization review agents shall apply written clinical criteria consistently. Written clinical criteria shall: (i) Be based on: (a) Nationally
 recognized standards including, but not limited to, the standards 
published by the American College of Cardiology, MCG, Hayes, Inc., or 
ODG; provided, however, that when multiple standards addressing the same
 treatment protocol exist, the payer shall have the right to select the 
standard upon which the written clinical criteria will be based; or (b) Standards developed pursuant to Â§ 50-6-124; (ii) Be
 developed in accordance with the current standards of national 
accreditation entities or with standards developed pursuant to Â§ 
50-6-124; (iii) Ensure quality of care and access to needed health care services; (iv) Be evidence-based; and (v) Be evaluated and updated at least annually; (C) A
 utilization review agent shall make any current preauthorization 
requirements and restrictions available on its online provider portal. 
The utilization review agent shall cite to the standards being used and 
reference the section of the standards relied upon by the utilization 
review agent. If the utilization review agent is relying upon 
proprietary references and documentation in developing the clinical 
criteria, then the utilization review agent shall provide a citation to 
the proprietary clinical indications being used. Any non-proprietary 
supporting references and documentation shall be made available to 
contracted providers if the utilization review agent develops its own 
clinical criteria; and (D) If a
 utilization review agent intends to either implement a new 
preauthorization requirement or restriction, or amend an existing 
requirement or restriction, the utilization review agent shall provide 
contracted health care providers with written notice, or other form of 
notice under the terms of the contract, of the new or amended 
requirement or restriction no less than sixty (60) days before the 
requirement or restriction is implemented and shall ensure that such 
restriction or requirement has been updated on the utilization review 
agent's web site; (3) Any 
notification of determination not to certify an admission or service or 
procedure must include the principal reason for the determination and 
the procedures to initiate an appeal of the determination; (4) Utilization
 review agents shall maintain and make available a written description 
of the appeal procedure by which the enrollee or the provider of record 
may seek review of a determination by the utilization review agent. The 
appeal procedure shall provide for the following: (A) On
 appeal, all determinations not to certify an admission, service, or 
procedure as being necessary or appropriate shall be made by a physician
 in the same or a similar general specialty as typically manages the 
medical condition, procedure or treatment under discussion as mutually 
deemed appropriate. For mental health and chemical dependency care, the 
person performing the utilization review in these appeal determinations 
must be both licensed at the independent practice level and in an 
appropriate mental health or chemical dependency discipline like that of
 the provider seeking authorization for the care denied; (B) Utilization
 review agents shall complete the adjudication of appeals of 
determinations not to certify admissions, services, and procedures no 
later than thirty (30) days from the date the appeal is filed and the 
receipt of all information necessary to complete the appeal; and (C) When
 an initial determination not to certify a health care service is made 
prior to or during an ongoing service requiring review, and the 
attending physician believes that the determination warrants immediate 
appeal, the attending physician shall have an opportunity to appeal that
 determination over the telephone on an expedited basis. A 
representative of a hospital or other health care provider or a 
representative of the enrollee or covered patient may assist in an 
appeal. Utilization review agents shall complete the adjudication on an 
expedited basis. Utilization review agents shall complete the 
adjudication of expedited appeals within forty-eight (48) hours of the 
date the appeal is filed and the receipt of all information necessary to
 complete the appeal. Expedited appeals which do not resolve a 
difference of opinion may be resubmitted through the standard appeal 
process; (5) Utilization review 
agents shall make staff available by toll-free telephone at least forty 
(40) hours per week during normal business hours; (6) Utilization
 review agents shall have a telephone system capable of accepting or 
recording incoming telephone calls during other than normal business 
hours and shall respond to these calls within two (2) working days; (7) Utilization review agents shall comply with all applicable laws to protect the confidentiality of individual medical records; (8) In
 the event that nationally recognized standards for a specific treatment
 protocol do not exist to satisfy the requirements of subdivision 
(a)(2)(B)(i), a utilization review agent shall ensure that all adverse 
determinations related to the specific treatment protocol are made by a 
physician or psychologist. A physician shall possess a valid license to 
practice medicine and shall be board certified or board eligible, or 
trained in the similar specialty as the health care provider who 
typically manages the medical condition or disease, or provides the 
health care service. A psychologist shall possess a valid license or 
certificate and shall be board certified or board eligible, or trained 
in the similar specialty as the health care provider who typically 
manages the medical condition or disease, or provides the health care 
service; (9) Utilization review 
agents shall allow a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours after an 
emergency admission, service, or procedure for an enrollee or the 
enrollee's representative to notify the utilization review agent and 
request certification or continuing treatment for that condition; and (10) (A) For
 outpatient mental health and chemical dependency care, the patient must
 register pursuant to the requirements of the policy or contract. After 
registration, the patient shall be approved for at least twelve (12) 
visits to a particular provider, except as otherwise provided in this 
section; (B) Initial 
utilization review for such outpatient mental health or chemical 
dependency patients shall be limited to no more than a two (2) page form
 to be submitted via facsimile or internet and pursuant to state and 
federal privacy rules, security rules, and any final rules issued 
pursuant to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act 
(HIPAA). After November 1, 2005, or sooner if required by HIPAA, the 
form shall be restricted to a single page. After November 1, 2005, the 
provider may no longer fax the form but is required to use the internet 
to submit necessary information if the utilization review agent so 
requires. In the event that the utilization review agent elects to 
restrict the submissions to the internet, provisions must be made to fax
 the information in the event of computer malfunction; (C) After
 the initial utilization review, additional information or follow-up 
utilization review for outpatient mental health or chemical dependency 
patients shall be limited to no more than eighteen percent (18%) of the 
total number of outpatient mental health and chemical dependency 
patients' reviews performed by the utilization review agent for the 
previous calendar year adjusted for the difference of covered lives in 
this state for the present calendar year, or as otherwise required by 
the Utilization Review Accreditation Commission (URAC) or the National 
Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). The eighteen-percent limit shall
 not apply to utilization review applicable to at risk populations, 
patients seen more than two (2) visits a week and patients for which 
substance abuse is reported or suspected. Calls from reviews to 
providers for appointment follow-up calls or for the credentialing 
process shall also not be subject to the eighteen-percent limit; (D) After
 utilization review as provided in this subdivision (a)(10), patients 
shall be authorized for at least twelve (12) additional visits or as 
otherwise recommended by the treatment plan; (E) Nothing
 in this part shall be construed to require compliance with the final 
security and privacy rules of HIPAA prior to the compliance dates set by
 the secretary of health and human services; and (F) Nothing
 in this part shall affect the policy or contract benefits nor shall it 
affect the Mental Health Parity Act, compiled in Â§ 56-7-2601 and 
56-7-2360.(b) With the exception of
 those standards contained in subdivisions (a)(2), (8), and (10), the 
commissioner shall exempt from the standards of this section any 
utilization review agent who has received accreditation by URAC or NCQA.
 Standards contained in subdivisions (a)(2) and (8) shall not apply to 
any TennCare dental benefits management program or any state insurance 
plan set out in title 8, chapter 27.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 812, Â§ 6; 2002, ch. 799, Â§ 4, 5; 2007, ch. 287, Â§ 1, 
2; 2008, ch. 812, Â§ 1; 2011, ch. 243, Â§ 1, 2; 2014, ch. 731, Â§ 2-4.   







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 56 - Insurance--->Chapter 6. Agents, Solicitors and Administrators - Part 7 Health Care Service Utilization Review Act--->56-6-706.  Violations.
===================================================================



 




56-6-706. Violations. (a) Whenever
 the commissioner has reason to believe that a utilization review agent 
subject to this part has been or is engaged in conduct that violates 
this part, the commissioner shall notify the utilization review agent of
 the alleged violation. The utilization review agent has thirty (30) 
days from the date the notice is received to respond to the alleged 
violation.(b) If the commissioner 
believes the utilization review agent has violated this part, or is not 
satisfied that the alleged violation has been corrected, the 
commissioner may conduct a contested case hearing on the alleged 
violation in accordance with the Uniform Administrative Procedures Act, 
compiled in title 4, chapter 5.(c) If,
 after the hearing, the commissioner determines that the utilization 
review agent has engaged in violations of this part, the commissioner 
shall reduce the findings to writing and shall issue and cause to be 
served upon the utilization review agent a copy of the findings and an 
order requiring the utilization review agent to cease and desist from 
engaging in the violations. The commissioner may also, at the 
commissioner's discretion, order: (1) Payment
 of a penalty of not more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000) in the 
aggregate for a violation that occurred with such frequency as to 
indicate a general business pattern or practice; or (2) Suspension
 or revocation of the authority to do business in this state as a 
utilization review agent if the utilization review agent knew the act 
was in violation of this chapter and repeated the act with such 
frequency as to indicate a general business pattern or practice.HISTORY: Acts 1992, ch. 812, Â§ 7. 







===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 56 - Insurance--->Chapter 47. Workers' Compensation Fraud Act--->56-47-101. Short title
===================================================================



 

This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Workers' Compensation Fraud Act.




[Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 48.]




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 56 - Insurance--->Chapter 47. Workers' Compensation Fraud Act--->56-47-102. Definitions
===================================================================



 

As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:

 (1) Actual malice means the knowledge that information is false, or reckless disregard of whether it is false;

 (2) Conceal means to take affirmative action to prevent others from discovering information. Mere failure to disclose information does not constitute concealment. Action by the holder of a legal privilege, or one who has a reasonable belief that a privilege exists, to prevent discovery of privileged information does not constitute concealment;

 (3) Insurance policy means the written instrument in which are set forth the terms of any binder of coverage or contract of insurance, including a binder or contract issued by a state-assigned risk plan, or other forms of workers' compensation insurance;

 (4) Insurance professional means sales agents, managing general agents, brokers, producers, adjusters and third party administrators;

 (5) Insurance transaction means a transaction by, between or among an:

 (A) Insurer or a person who acts on behalf of an insurer; and

 (B) Insured, claimant, applicant for insurance, public adjuster, insurance professional, practitioner or any person who acts on behalf of any of the insureds, claimants, applicants for insurance, public adjusters, insurance professionals and practitioners, for the purpose of obtaining insurance or reinsurance, calculating insurance premiums, submitting a claim, negotiating or adjusting a claim or otherwise obtaining insurance, self-insurance or reinsurance or obtaining the benefits of or from insurance, self-insurance or reinsurance;

 (6) Insurer means any person purporting to engage in the business of insurance or authorized to do business in this state or subject to regulation by the state, who undertakes to indemnify another against loss, damage or liability arising from a contingent or unknown event related to causes arising under title 50, chapter 6;

 (7) Pattern or practice means repeated, routine or generalized in nature, and not merely isolated or sporadic;

 (8) Person means a natural person, company, corporation, unincorporated association, partnership, professional corporation, agency of government or any other entity;

 (9) Practitioner means a licensee of this state authorized to practice medicine and surgery, psychology, chiropractic or law or any other licensee of state or person required to be licensed in this state whose services are compensated either in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, by insurance proceeds;

 (10) Premium means consideration paid or payable for coverage under an insurance policy. Premium includes any payments, whether due within the insurance policy term or otherwise, and deductible payments whether advanced by the insurer or insurance professional and subject to reimbursement by the insured or otherwise, any self-insured retention or payments, whether advanced by the insurer or insurance professionals and subject to reimbursement by the insured or otherwise, and any collateral or security to be provided to collateralize obligations to pay any of the above;

 (11) Premium avoidance means any intentional material misrepresentation by an employer of any or all of the four (4) premium determinants. The determinants are employee job classifications, amount of payroll in each classification, geographic location of insured operations, and history of past losses. Intentional misrepresentation of each of these items can affect the total premium charged by an insurer to a workers' compensation risk;

 (12) Reckless means without reasonable belief of the truth, or, for the purposes of Â§ 56-47-104(a)(3), with a high degree of awareness of probable insolvency; and

 (13) Withhold means to fail to disclose facts or information that any law other than this chapter requires to be disclosed. Mere failure to disclose information does not constitute withholding if the one failing to disclose reasonably believes that there is no duty to disclose.




[Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 48; 1998, ch. 1024, Â§ 11.]




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 56 - Insurance--->Chapter 47. Workers' Compensation Fraud Act--->56-47-103. Fraudulent insurance acts
===================================================================



 

(a) Any person who, knowingly and with intent to defraud, and for the purpose of depriving another of property or for pecuniary gain, commits or participates in or permits its employees or its agents to commit any of the following acts, has committed a fraudulent insurance act:

 (1) Presents, causes to be presented or prepares with knowledge or belief that it will be presented, by or on behalf of an insured, insurer, claimant or applicant to an insurer or insurance professional in connection with an insurance transaction any information that contains false representations as to any material fact, or that withholds or conceals a material fact concerning any of the following:

 (i) The application for, rating of or renewal of, any insurance policy;

 (ii) A claim for payment or benefit pursuant to any insurance policy; or

 (iii) Payments made in accordance with the terms of any insurance policy;

 (2) Presents, causes to be presented or prepares with knowledge or belief that it will be presented, to or by an insurer or insurance professional in connection with an insurance transaction, any information that contains false representations as to any material fact, or that withholds or conceals a material fact, concerning any of the following:

 (i) The solicitation for sale of any insurance policy or purported insurance policy;

 (ii) An application for certificate of authority; or

 (iii) The financial condition of any insurer;

 (3) Solicits or accepts new or renewal insurance risks by or for an insolvent insurer;

 (4) Removes the assets or records of assets, transactions and affairs or the material part of the assets or records of assets, transactions and affairs from the home office or other place of business of the insurer, or from the place of safekeeping of the insurer, or destroys or sequesters the same from the department of commerce and insurance;

 (5) Diverts, misappropriates, converts or embezzles funds of an insurer, an insured, claimant or applicant for insurance in connection with:

 (i) An insurance transaction; or

 (ii) The conduct of business activities by an insurer or insurance professional; or

 (6) Presents, causes to be presented or prepares with knowledge or belief that it will be presented, by or on behalf of an insured or insurer, or insurance professional, to a claimant or any other person in connection with an insurance transaction, any information that contains false representations as to any material fact, or that withholds or conceals a material fact concerning any of the following:

 (i) A claim for payment or benefit pursuant to any insurance policy; or

 (ii) Payments made in accordance with the terms of any insurance policy.

(b) It is unlawful for any person to commit, or to attempt to commit, or to aid, assist, abet or solicit another to commit, or to conspire to commit a fraudulent insurance act.

(c) A practitioner violates this section only if the practitioner has been engaged in conduct that constitutes a pattern or practice of violation of this section.

(d) It is unlawful for an employer subject to the Workers' Compensation Law, compiled in title 50, chapter 6, to intentionally fail to secure payment of compensation by providing workers' compensation insurance coverage or by qualifying as a self-insurer pursuant to the workers' compensation law.




[Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 48; 2000, ch. 852, Â§ 10.]




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 56 - Insurance--->Chapter 47. Workers' Compensation Fraud Act--->56-47-104. Unlawful insurance acts
===================================================================



 

 56-47-104. Unlawful insurance acts  (a) Any person who commits, or participates in, or permits itsemployees or its agents to commit any of the following acts with anintent to induce reliance, has committed an unlawful insurance act:  (1) Presents, causes to be presented or prepares withknowledge or belief that it will be presented, by or on behalf of aninsured, insurer, claimant or applicant to an insurer or insuranceprofessional in connection with an insurance transaction, anyinformation that the person knows to contain false representations,or representations, the falsity of which the person has recklesslydisregarded, as to any material fact, or that withholds or conceals amaterial fact, concerning any of the following:   (i) The application for, rating of or renewal of, anyinsurance policy;   (ii) A claim for payment or benefit pursuant to anyinsurance policy; or   (iii) Payments made in accordance with the terms of anyinsurance policy;  (2) Presents, causes to be presented, or prepares withknowledge or belief that it will be presented, to or by an insurer,insurance professional in connection with an insurance transaction,any information that the person knows to contain falserepresentations, or representations, the falsity of which the personhas recklessly disregarded, as to any material fact, or thatwithholds or conceals a material fact, concerning any of the following:   (i) The solicitation for sale of any insurance policy orpurported insurance policy;   (ii) An application for certificate of authority; or   (iii) The financial condition of any insurer;  (3) Solicits or accepts new or renewal insurance risks by orfor an insurer that the person knows was insolvent or the insolvencyof which the person recklessly disregards;  (4) Presents, causes to be presented, or prepares withknowledge or belief that it will be presented, by or on behalf of aninsured or insurer, or insurance professional or any other person toa claimant in connection with an insurance transaction, anyinformation that the person knows to contain false representations,or representations, the falsity of which the person has recklesslydisregarded, as to any material fact, or that withholds or conceals amaterial fact, concerning any of the following:   (i) A claim for payment for benefit pursuant to anyinsurance policy; or   (ii) Payments made in accordance with the terms of anyinsurance policy.(b) It is unlawful for any person to commit, or to attempt tocommit, or to aid, assist, abet or solicit another to commit, or toconspire to commit an unlawful insurance act.(c) A practitioner violates this section only if the practitionerhas been engaged in conduct that constitutes a pattern or practice ofviolation of this section.[Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 48.]




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 56 - Insurance--->Chapter 47. Workers' Compensation Fraud Act--->56-47-105. Penalties
===================================================================



 

Violations of Â§ 56-47-103(a), (b) and (c) are to be valued according to Â§ 39-11-106(a)(36), and punished as theft under Â§ 39-14-105. Violations of Â§ 56-47-103(d) shall be valued to include the total amount of workers' compensation premiums that the employer avoided paying, to be calculated by utilizing the appropriate Tennessee assigned risk plan advisory prospective loss cost and multiplier for such an employer for the total number of years, and parts of years, during which the employer was subject to the workers' compensation law and intentionally failed to secure payment of compensation as required by the workers' compensation law, and the violations shall be punished as theft under Â§ 39-14-105.




[Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 48; 1998, ch. 1024, Â§ 12; 2000, ch. 852, Â§ 11.]




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 56 - Insurance--->Chapter 47. Workers' Compensation Fraud Act--->56-47-106. Restitution
===================================================================



 

(a) A person convicted of a violation of Â§ 56-47-103 shall be ordered to make monetary restitution for any financial loss or damages sustained by an injured employee or any other person as a result of the violation. Financial loss or damage shall include, but is not necessarily limited to, loss of earnings, out-of-pocket and other expenses, paid deductible amounts under an insurance policy, insurer claim payments, costs reasonably attributed to investigations and recovery efforts by owners, insurers, insurance professionals, law enforcement and other public authorities, and costs of prosecution.

(b) When restitution is ordered, the court shall determine its extent and methods. Restitution may be imposed in addition to a fine and, if ordered, any other penalty, but not in lieu thereof. The court shall determine whether restitution, if ordered, shall be paid in a single payment or installments and shall fix a period of time within which payment of restitution is to be made in full.




[Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 48.]




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 56 - Insurance--->Chapter 47. Workers' Compensation Fraud Act--->56-47-107. Violations by licensed professionals deemed moral turpitude
===================================================================



 

Any practitioner determined by the court to have violated Â§ 56-47-103 shall be deemed to have committed an act involving moral turpitude that is inimical to the public well-being. The court or prosecutor shall notify the appropriate licensing authority in this state of the judgment for appropriate disciplinary action, including revocation of any such professional's license, and may notify appropriate licensing authorities in any other jurisdictions where the practitioner is licensed. Any victim may notify the appropriate licensing authorities in this state and any other jurisdiction where the practitioner is licensed, of the conviction. The state licensing authority shall take appropriate administrative action authorized by state law, to consider the imposition of any administrative sanctions or license revocations as provided by law against the practitioner. It is recommended by the general assembly that the state supreme court shall take appropriate action, including, but not limited to, disbarment with respect to any attorney found guilty of such felony. All the referrals to the appropriate licensing or other agencies, and all dispositive actions of the licensing or other agencies, shall be a matter of public record.




[Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 48.]




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 56 - Insurance--->Chapter 47. Workers' Compensation Fraud Act--->56-47-108. Recovery for economic injuries
===================================================================



 

(a) (1) Any person economically injured by reason of a violation of Â§ 56-47-104 may recover for the economic injury from the person violating Â§ 56-47-104, in any appropriate court, the following:

 (i) Return of any profit, benefit, compensation or payment received by the person violating Â§ 56-47-104 directly resulting from the violation; and

 (ii) Reasonable attorney's fees, related legal expenses, including internal legal expenses and court costs.

 (2) An action maintained under this subsection (a) may neither be certified as a class action nor be made part of a class action.

(b) (1) Any person economically injured by reason of a violation of Â§ 56-47-103 may recover for the economic injury from the person violating Â§ 56-47-103, in any appropriate court, the following:

 (i) Return of any profit, benefit, compensation or payment received by the person violating Â§ 56-47-103 directly resulting from the violation;

 (ii) Reasonable attorney's fees, related legal expenses, including internal legal expenses and court costs;

 (iii) All other economic damages directly resulting from the violation of Â§ 56-47-103;

 (iv) Reasonable investigative fees based on a reasonable estimate of the time and expense incurred in the investigation of the violation or violations of Â§ 56-47-103 proved at trial; and

 (v) A penalty of no less than one thousand dollars ($1,000) and no greater than ten thousand dollars ($10,000).

 (2) An action maintained under this subsection (b) may neither be certified as a class action nor be made part of a class action.

(c) Any person injured in the course of employment or in such person's business or property by a person violating Â§ 56-47-103, upon a showing of clear and convincing evidence that the violation was part of a pattern or practice of such violations, shall be entitled to recover threefold the injured person's economic damages. An action for treble damages must be brought within one (1) year of the last to occur of the violations. One third (1/3) of the treble damages awarded shall be payable to the state to be used solely for the purpose of investigation and prosecution of violations of this chapter or other fraudulent behavior relating to insurance transactions, and/or for public education relating to workers' compensation insurance fraud. An action maintained under this subsection (c) may neither be certified as a class action nor be made part of a class action, unless the violations of Â§ 56-47-103 giving rise to the action resulted in criminal conviction of the violator or violators under Â§ 56-47-105.

(d) (1) The attorney general and reporter has the authority to maintain civil proceedings on behalf of the department of commerce and insurance and any victims of violations of Â§ 56-47-103. In any such action, the court shall proceed as soon as practicable to the hearing and determination of the proceedings. Pending final determination of the proceedings, the court may at any time enter restraining orders or prohibitions, or take other actions, including the acceptance of satisfactory performance bonds, as it shall deem proper.

 (2) The court has the jurisdiction to prevent and restrain violations of Â§ 56-47-103 by issuing appropriate orders.

 (3) In any action commenced under this subsection (d), the court, upon finding that any person has violated Â§ 56-47-103, shall levy a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000) for each violation.

(e) Any court in which a prosecution for violation of Â§ 56-47-103 is pending shall have authority to stay or limit proceedings in any civil action regarding the same or related conduct. Any court in which is pending a civil action brought pursuant to subsection (d) may stay or limit proceedings in actions brought pursuant to subsections (a)-(c) regarding the same or related conduct, or may transfer the actions or consolidate them before itself or allow the plaintiffs in such actions to participate in the action brought pursuant to subsection (d), as it shall prescribe.

(f) Any civil cause of action under this section for violation of Â§ 56-47-103 or Â§ 56-47-104 must be brought within one (1) year of the commission of the last occurring of the acts constituting the violation, or within one (1) year of the time the plaintiff discovered, or with reasonable diligence could have discovered, the acts, whichever is later.

(g) Any person economically injured by reason of a violation of Â§ 56-47-103 or Â§ 56-47-104 may recover under only one (1) of the subsections in this section.



[Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 48.]




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 56 - Insurance--->Chapter 47. Workers' Compensation Fraud Act--->56-47-109. Exclusivity of remedies under 56-47-108
===================================================================



 

(a) The remedies expressly provided in Â§ 56-47-108 shall be the only private remedies for violations of this chapter and no additional remedies shall be implied. The remedies available under Â§ 56-47-108 shall not be used in conjunction with or in addition to any other remedies available at law or in equity to duplicate recovery for the same element of economic damage. Further, in any civil action pleading both exemplary damages and the treble damages available in Â§ 56-47-108(c), the plaintiff shall elect one or the other remedy, but not both, at the conclusion of the evidentiary phase of the trial.

(b) However, nothing in this chapter shall limit or abrogate any right of action that would have existed in the absence of this chapter, but no action based on such a right shall rely on this chapter to establish a standard of conduct or for any other purpose.




[Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 48.]




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 56 - Insurance--->Chapter 47. Workers' Compensation Fraud Act--->56-47-110. Cooperation with official investigating -- Disclosure required -- Right of insurer to request information
===================================================================



 

 56-47-110. Cooperation with official investigating -- Disclosurerequired -- Right of insurer to request information
  (a) When any law enforcement official or authority, the departmentof commerce and insurance or department of labor and workforcedevelopment requests information from an insurer, insuranceprofessional or any other person for the purpose of detecting,prosecuting or preventing insurance fraud, the insurer, insuranceprofessional or other person shall take all reasonable actions topromptly provide the information requested, subject to any legalprivilege protecting the information. (b) Any insurer, insurance professional or other person who hasreasonable belief that an act violating Â§ 56-47-103 or Â§ 56-47-104will be, is being, or has been committed, shall furnish and discloseany information in its possession concerning the act to theappropriate law enforcement official or authority, department ofcommerce and insurance or department of labor and workforcedevelopment, subject to any legal privilege protecting the information.  (c) An insurer, insurance professional or other person providinginformation to any law enforcement, regulatory, licensing or othergovernmental agency under subsection (a) or (b), shall have the rightto request information in the possession or control of the agencyrelating to the suspected violation or to a pattern of relatedactivity, except information that was privileged or confidentialunder the laws of this state prior to its submission to the agency.In instances where disclosure would not jeopardize an ongoinginvestigation or prosecution, the agency shall provide the requestedinformation to the insurer, insurance professional or other person.The agency may request that the insurer, insurance professional orother person keep the disclosed information confidential. (d) Any person that has a reasonable belief that an act violatingthis chapter will be, is being, or has been committed or any personwho collects, reviews or analyzes information concerning insurancefraud, may furnish and disclose any information in its possessionconcerning the act to an authorized representative of an insurer thatrequests the information for the purpose of detecting, prosecuting orpreventing insurance fraud. (e) Failure to cooperate with a request for information from anappropriate local or state authority shall bar a person's eligibilityfor restitution from any proceeds resulting from the governmentalinvestigation and prosecution. [Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 48; 1999, ch. 520, Â§ 42.]




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 56 - Insurance--->Chapter 47. Workers' Compensation Fraud Act--->56-47-111. Immunity of persons providing information
===================================================================



 

In the absence of actual malice, no person furnishing, disclosing or requesting information pursuant to Â§ 56-47-110 shall be subject to civil liability for libel, slander or any other cause of action arising from the furnishing, disclosing or requesting of the information. No person providing information pursuant to Â§ 56-47-110(a) shall be subject to civil liability for any cause of action arising from the person's provision of requested information. Any person against whom any action is brought who is found to be immune from liability under this section shall be entitled to recover reasonable attorney's fees and costs from the person or party who brought the action. This section does not abrogate or modify in any way any common law or statutory privilege or immunity heretofore enjoyed by any person.




[Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 48.]




===================================================================
--->tennessee--->Tennessee Statutes--->Title 56 - Insurance--->Chapter 47. Workers' Compensation Fraud Act--->56-47-112. Workers' compensation on insurance antifraud plans
===================================================================



 




56-47-112. Workers' compensation on insurance antifraud plans






(a) (1) Every insurer shall prepare, implement, maintain and submit to the department of commerce and insurance a workers' compensation insurance anti-fraud plan.

 (2) Each insurer's anti-fraud plan shall outline specific procedures to:

 (A) Prevent, detect and investigate all forms of insurance fraud, including fraud involving the insurer's employees or agents; fraud resulting from misrepresentations in the application, renewal or rating of insurance policies; claims fraud; and security of the insurer's data processing system;

 (B) Educate appropriate employees on fraud detection and the insurer's anti-fraud plan;

 (C) Provide for the hiring of or contracting for fraud investigators;

 (D) Report insurance fraud to appropriate law enforcement and regulatory authorities in the investigation and prosecution of insurance fraud; and

 (E) Pursue restitution for financial loss caused by insurance fraud, where appropriate.

 (3) The commissioner may review each insurer's anti-fraud plan to determine if it complies with the requirements of this section.

 (4) It is the responsibility of the commissioner to assure insurer compliance with anti-fraud plans submitted to the commissioner. The commissioner may require reasonable modification of the insurer's anti-fraud plan, or may require other reasonable remedial action if the review or examination reveals substantial non-compliance with the terms of the insurer's own anti-fraud plan.

 (5) The commissioner may require each insurer to file a summary of the insurer's anti-fraud activities and results. The anti-fraud plans and the summary of the insurer's anti-fraud activities and results are not public records and are exempt from title 10, chapter 7, part 5, and shall be proprietary and not subject to public examination, and shall not be discoverable or admissible in civil litigation.

 (6) This section confers no private rights of action.

(b) (1) All printed applications for insurance, and all printed claim forms provided and required by an insurer or required by law as a condition of payment of a claim, shall contain a statement, permanently affixed to the application or claim form, that clearly states in substance the following:

It is a crime to knowingly provide false, incomplete or misleading information to any party to a workers' compensation transaction for the purpose of committing fraud. Penalties include imprisonment, fines and denial of insurance benefits.

 (2) The lack of a statement required in this section does not constitute a defense in any criminal prosecution under Â§ 56-47-103 nor in any civil action under Â§ 56-47-103 or Â§ 56-47-104.

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of title 56, the following are the exclusive monetary penalties for a violation of this section. Insurers that fail to prepare, implement, maintain and submit to the department of commerce and insurance an insurance anti-fraud plan are subject to a penalty of five hundred dollars ($500) per day, not to exceed twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000).



[Acts 1996, ch. 944, Â§ 48.]
